_people/lauren-gardner.md, before:

---
title: Lauren Gardner
affiliation:
- class: Fall 2014
  role: Student
- class: Spring 2015
  role: Organizer
- class: Summer 2015
  role: Organizer
- class: Fall 2015
  role: Organizer
- class: Summer 2016
  role: Organizer
- class: August 2016
  role: Organizer
- class: Fall 2016
  role: Organizer
- class: Fall 2017
  role: Organizer
- class: Machine Learning Literacy
  role: Organizer
twitter: poohlaga
github: poohlaga
website: http://poohead.com
place: Brooklyn, NY
---
Lauren is a New York City–based product manager, community builder and artist.

She is the co-owner of the art collective and DIY gallery Babycastles which has reinvented the arcade as a social space for independent video game culture. Lauren is also a partner and co-organizer for the School For Poetic Computation. She has also spent 15+ years as a Technical Product Manager building enterprise level software for companies including Turner/Time Warner & Thomson Reuters.
Building things through collaborative process is the heart of her professional and artistic pursuits.

Commit message:

Adding Spring 2018 students and teachers

_people/lauren-gardner.md, after:

---
title: Lauren Gardner
affiliation:
- class: Fall 2014
  role: Student
- class: Spring 2015
  role: Organizer
- class: Summer 2015
  role: Organizer
- class: Fall 2015
  role: Organizer
- class: Summer 2016
  role: Organizer
- class: August 2016
  role: Organizer
- class: Fall 2016
  role: Organizer
- class: Fall 2017
  role: Organizer
- class: Machine Learning Literacy
  role: Organizer
- class: Spring 2018
  role: Teacher
twitter: poohlaga
github: poohlaga
website: http://poohead.com
place: Brooklyn, NY
---
Lauren is a New York City–based product manager, community builder and artist.

She is the co-owner of the art collective and DIY gallery Babycastles which has reinvented the arcade as a social space for independent video game culture. Lauren is also a partner at the School For Poetic Computation. She has spent 15+ years as a Technical Product Manager building enterprise level software for companies including Turner/Time Warner & Thomson Reuters.
Building things through collaborative process is the heart of her professional and artistic pursuits.
