apr20bootcamponline.md, before:

---
title: SFPC Creative Coding Bootcamp (online)
layout: participate
location:
contact: sfpc
slides:

  - "/static/img/bootcamp/bootcamp1.jpg"
  - "/static/img/bootcamp/bootcamp2.jpg"
  - "/static/img/bootcamp/bootcamp5.jpg"
  - "/static/img/bootcamp/bootcamp6.jpg"  
---
***

## Call for Students: Creative Coding Bootcamp (online)
- April 21st - May 5th, total of five classes and additional study sessions held over three weeks.
- Classes will be held Tuesdays & Thursdays from 1pm - 3pm EST.
- Teachers and TAs will be available for additional one-on-one discussions through office hours throughout the session.
- **Applications are open now. [Register here](https://airtable.com/shr4DF0I48cpZB9Le)**

School for Poetic Computation’s Bootcamp introduces the foundations of coding to beginners by creating visual art and animations in openFrameworks. This 5 session class will now be open to online participation for the first time and we welcome anyone who wants to learn to code. The bootcamp will be taught by Robby Kraft with teaching assistance from Ilona Brand and Zachary Lieberman.  

Students will be coding in C++, learning concepts like variables, memory, and scope; branching, looping, boolean evaluations, and logic; functions, recursion, and events; object-oriented design; and working with media like video, sound, and responding to keyboard and mouse inputs. Students will become competent in Xcode/Visual Studio, GitHub, and openFrameworks.

### Who are the teachers?
- [Robby Kraft](http://robbykraft.com/), Teacher - is an origami artist, educator, and software engineer based in New York City.
- [Ilona Brand](https://theilonabrand.com/), Teaching Assistant - is a freelance tech generalist building technology to empower communities.
- [Zach Lieberman](http://zach.li/), Visiting Teacher - is a new media artist, designer, computer programmer, and educator.

### How will the class be conducted?
We will conduct the class online via Zoom between 1 - 3 pm EST on Tuesday's and Thursdays. Teachers and TA's will be available at dedicated hours through the week for individual questions and discussion.

In addition to online classes and one-on-ones, we will be using Slack for communication, GitHub for sharing course material, Google calendar to stay organized and Calend.ly to schedule one-on-ones. You do not need to create accounts on these services yet, we will send you information once you are accepted. Please be prepared to dedicate up to 5 hours of additional study and work time to the class outside of the two hours of class time each week.

SFPC fosters a collaborative and relaxed learning environment. We value your questions and want to make sure all students feel comfortable engaging with the teachers and material fully.  Although we will not be sitting around the same table, we are committed to offer the same level of support and dedication to this cohort of students.

[Click here](https://medium.com/sfpc/sfpc-fall-2019-bootcamp-week-b77877b4df23) to see what last semester's bootcamp class felt like from a student's perspective.

### What is expected of me?
- Come to all classes and thoughtfully engage with your classmates, teachers and TAs.
- We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open.
- We welcome students with a broad array of technical experiences–no coding experience is required, but a basic comfort level / curiosity with technology is preferred.
- There are no prerequisites. Students are required to have a computer (Mac/Windows/Linux), an internet connection, and pre-install Xcode or Visual Studio. Links will be provided before class.


| ![We encourage you to show your work.](/static/img/bootcamp/april.gif) |
|:--:|
| *We encourage you to show your work.* |

| ![And give / receive feedback from peers.](/static/img/bootcamp/colin_nik.gif) |
|:--:|
| *And give / receive feedback from peers.* |

  
### Schedule

#### Weekly class times
- Tuesdays & Thursdays, 1pm ~ 3pm mandatory online class
- Approximately 3 hours of Teacher & TA support during the week based on student availability. Use this time to schedule one-on-ones to review any problems or questions you might have about assignments.


#### Apr. 21st
- building openFrameworks applications
- introduce basic C++ syntax and openFrameworks graphics functions
- working with the painter's algorithm
- creating our own variables and functions


#### Apr. 23rd
- functions that return values
- openFrameworks utility methods, random numbers, time, using sine curves
- animation and changing states
- control structures: branching and looping
- event handlers: mouse and keyboard


#### Apr. 28th
- container data structures: C arrays and C++ vectors
- object-oriented design
- classes, methods, properties, and states
- ofPoint and other openFrameworks primitives


#### Apr. 30th
- openFrameworks object types: polylines, vectors
- cameras, transformations and the matrix stack
  - rotate, translate scale
  - push, pop matrices
- function recursion


#### May 5th
- ofxAddons, community extensions to openFrameworks
- reading and writing data
- displaying images, playing audio, capturing video


### How much is tuition?
$550 USD. Upon payment, your space in the class will be reserved.

We are committed to being fully transparent about how we make and spend money. In the spirit of radical openness and generosity, on which the school was founded, [we open-source our finances on Github](https://github.com/sfpc/finance-and-administration). There, you can read financial reports and download raw statements.


### What if I can’t go, can I get a refund?
- Yes, we can give you 100% refund up to 2 days before class starts
- 50% refund after 2 days, until the first day of class
- No refunds can be given after the first day of class


### How do I apply?
Applications for the New Coders Bootcamp - please [CLICK HERE](https://airtable.com/shr4DF0I48cpZB9Le).  

We will be accepting up to 17 students on a rolling basis. We will respond to your application within 2 days of submission. Rolling admissions means there are fewer and fewer slots the longer you wait, so if you’re interested in the program get your application in early!

Commit message:

close applications, add is this right section on BOTH versions of bootcamp page
close applications, add is this right section on BOTH versions of bootcamp page

apr20bootcamponline.md, after:

---
title: SFPC Creative Coding Bootcamp (online)
layout: participate
location:
contact: sfpc
slides:

  - "/static/img/bootcamp/bootcamp1.jpg"
  - "/static/img/bootcamp/bootcamp2.jpg"
  - "/static/img/bootcamp/bootcamp5.jpg"
  - "/static/img/bootcamp/bootcamp6.jpg"  
---
***

## Call for Students: Creative Coding Bootcamp (online)
- April 21st - May 5th, total of five classes and additional study sessions held over three weeks.
- Classes will be held Tuesdays & Thursdays from 1pm - 3pm EST.
- Teachers and TAs will be available for additional one-on-one discussions through office hours throughout the session.
- **Applications are now closed.**

School for Poetic Computation’s Bootcamp introduces the foundations of coding to beginners by creating visual art and animations in openFrameworks. This 5 session class will now be open to online participation for the first time and we welcome anyone who wants to learn to code. The bootcamp will be taught by Robby Kraft with teaching assistance from Ilona Brand and Zachary Lieberman.  

Students will be coding in C++, learning concepts like variables, memory, and scope; branching, looping, boolean evaluations, and logic; functions, recursion, and events; object-oriented design; and working with media like video, sound, and responding to keyboard and mouse inputs. Students will become competent in Xcode/Visual Studio, GitHub, and openFrameworks.

### Who are the teachers?
- [Robby Kraft](http://robbykraft.com/), Teacher - is an origami artist, educator, and software engineer based in New York City.
- [Ilona Brand](https://theilonabrand.com/), Teaching Assistant - is a freelance tech generalist building technology to empower communities.
- [Zach Lieberman](http://zach.li/), Visiting Teacher - is a new media artist, designer, computer programmer, and educator.

### How will the class be conducted?
We will conduct the class online via Zoom between 1 - 3 pm EST on Tuesday's and Thursdays. Teachers and TA's will be available at dedicated hours through the week for individual questions and discussion.

In addition to online classes and one-on-ones, we will be using Slack for communication, GitHub for sharing course material, Google calendar to stay organized and Calend.ly to schedule one-on-ones. You do not need to create accounts on these services yet, we will send you information once you are accepted. Please be prepared to dedicate up to 5 hours of additional study and work time to the class outside of the two hours of class time each week.

SFPC fosters a collaborative and relaxed learning environment. We value your questions and want to make sure all students feel comfortable engaging with the teachers and material fully.  Although we will not be sitting around the same table, we are committed to offer the same level of support and dedication to this cohort of students.

[Click here](https://medium.com/sfpc/sfpc-fall-2019-bootcamp-week-b77877b4df23) to see what last semester's bootcamp class felt like from a student's perspective.

### What is expected of me?
- Come to all classes and thoughtfully engage with your classmates, teachers and TAs.
- We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open.
- We welcome students with a broad array of technical experiences–no coding experience is required, but a basic comfort level / curiosity with technology is preferred.
- There are no prerequisites. Students are required to have a computer (Mac/Windows/Linux), an internet connection, and pre-install Xcode or Visual Studio. Links will be provided before class.


| ![We encourage you to show your work.](/static/img/bootcamp/april.gif) |
|:--:|
| *We encourage you to show your work.* |

| ![And give / receive feedback from peers.](/static/img/bootcamp/colin_nik.gif) |
|:--:|
| *And give / receive feedback from peers.* |

### Is this the right class for me?

#### If this sounds like you, then YES!
- I don’t know code and want to learn so I can make 2D-based or visual art.
- I know how HTML/CSS works but haven’t delved deeper into coding.
- My art practice is music/photo/design/language(...) based and I want to learn code so I can play around with some ideas.
- I have learned code in the past but I could use a basic review of concepts (ie, a getting started course makes sense).
- I’d like to have a better grasp on the basics of code (variables, functions, objects) and to learn how to ask questions / get unstuck faster.

#### If this sounds like you, you should consider signing up for an upcoming ‘Recreating the Past’ class with Zach.  Note that bootcamp is geared towards beginners and you may find the first classes a little slow.
- I have a good understanding of what variables, functions, control structures are.  I even may have done object / OOP programming.
- I am a developer at my job but want to expand my knowledge of using code for artistic purposes.
- I have experience with code (C++/P5/P5js/pyton, etc) but not openFrameworks - or - it’s been a while since I’ve played with it.


### Schedule

#### Weekly class times
- Tuesdays & Thursdays, 1pm ~ 3pm mandatory online class
- Approximately 3 hours of Teacher & TA support during the week based on student availability. Use this time to schedule one-on-ones to review any problems or questions you might have about assignments.


#### Apr. 21st
- building openFrameworks applications
- introduce basic C++ syntax and openFrameworks graphics functions
- working with the painter's algorithm
- creating our own variables and functions


#### Apr. 23rd
- functions that return values
- openFrameworks utility methods, random numbers, time, using sine curves
- animation and changing states
- control structures: branching and looping
- event handlers: mouse and keyboard


#### Apr. 28th
- container data structures: C arrays and C++ vectors
- object-oriented design
- classes, methods, properties, and states
- ofPoint and other openFrameworks primitives


#### Apr. 30th
- openFrameworks object types: polylines, vectors
- cameras, transformations and the matrix stack
  - rotate, translate scale
  - push, pop matrices
- function recursion


#### May 5th
- ofxAddons, community extensions to openFrameworks
- reading and writing data
- displaying images, playing audio, capturing video


### How much is tuition?
$550 USD. Upon payment, your space in the class will be reserved.

We are committed to being fully transparent about how we make and spend money. In the spirit of radical openness and generosity, on which the school was founded, [we open-source our finances on Github](https://github.com/sfpc/finance-and-administration). There, you can read financial reports and download raw statements.


### What if I can’t go, can I get a refund?
- Yes, we can give you 100% refund up to 2 days before class starts
- 50% refund after 2 days, until the first day of class
- No refunds can be given after the first day of class


### How do I apply?
Applications are now closed.  

We will be accepting up to 17 students on a rolling basis. We will respond to your application within 2 days of submission. Rolling admissions means there are fewer and fewer slots the longer you wait, so if you’re interested in the program get your application in early!
