codeecologies.md, before:

---
title: codeecologies
layout: participate2

---

![](/static/img/participate/codeecologies.jpg )

- December 15, 2018. 1~6pm 
- School for Poetic Computation, 155 Bank St, NYC
- [Free Registration](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/code-ecologies-tickets-52863504164), Limited seating
- ASL interpretation, Real Time Captioning, disability and access needs will be supported
- A portion of the event will be live-streamed  

 
Code Ecologies is an open forum to explore the environmental impact of computation. This public event is organized by a group of faculty and alumni from the School for Poetic Computation who are passionate about environmental justice. Through presentations and discussions, we will explore the negative influence of computational technologies and network infrastructure on the natural environment, and the precarious conditions they create for the habitat we share among various species.

“Digital” is falsely seen as virtual or non physical, when in fact “cloud computing” doesn't happen in the clouds -- there are massive data centers, cooling facilities, fiber optic cables, mineral extraction, electronic waste, and other physical infrastructures. On the other side of the arms race for smarter and faster AI, there's a lack of understanding and accountability -- individual or organizational -- for how our use of machine learning, blockchain or 'whatever new' impacts the Earth. Tech companies offer forgiveness and even encouragement for misusing and abusing electronic devices, for example on Black Friday. Online services and apps create an illusion of seamless interaction between computational devices and data which evaporate into thin air after their life cycles. None of this make-believe is true. We need to challenge the disparity between the conveniences of smart devices, and our complicity with destructive technology, as users and creators.  

At the School for Poetic Computation, we approach code from artistic, poetic, critical and philosophical perspectives. Considering how poetry explores the transformative qualities of the language and computation enables transfer of information at scale, we hope to bring together activists, poets, scientists, artists and community members to discuss "What should we do about it?" 

Co-organized by [Taeyoon Choi](http://taeyoonchoi.com), [Nabil Hassein](https://nabilhassein.github.io/) and [Sonia Boller](https://soniaboller.herokuapp.com/). 

Image by Sonia Boller. 

### Speakers and facilitators 

[Ingrid Burrington](http://lifewinning.com/) writes, makes maps, and tells jokes about places, politics, and the feelings people have about both. She’s the author of Networks of New York An Illustrated Field Guide to Urban Internet Infrastructure. Her work has been supported by Eyebeam, Data & Society, and the Center for Land Use Interpretation.

[Jamie Tyberg](https://twitter.com/jtbrg) is a Brooklyn-based movement fundraiser and climate activist. Born in South Korea, Jamie immigrated to the United States in 2002 and currently serves as the Development Director for New York Communities for Change, a grassroots organization of low-income members fighting against racial oppression and economic injustice. Jamie also helped found the National Ecosocialist Working Group of the Democratic Socialists of America, building a robust network of climate activists and organizers across the nation to combat the climate crisis.

[Elizabeth Guffey](https://www.purchase.edu/live/profiles/498-elizabeth-guffey) works at the intersection of art, design and disability studies. Her book Designing Disability: Symbols, Space and Society (Bloomsbury) that designs like the
International Symbol of Access or “wheelchair symbol” can alter the environment, making people more disabled or less, depending on the design’s planning and use. She is also Founding Editor of the academic journal Design and Culture. Guffey currently heads the MA in Modern and Contemporary Art, Criticism and Theory at the State
University of New York, Purchase College.

[Odile Joannette](http://www.wapikoni.ca/home) is the executive director of Wapikoni Mobile. She has been an advocate for Indigenous rights for close to 20 years, striving to improve the quality of life of Aboriginal people. She serves on the Order of Montreal's Board and has been handpicked to be one of 15 members of Montreal's Table on Diversity, Inclusion and the Fight Against Discrimination. She is a founding member and administrator of both DestiNATIONS: Carrefour International of Indigenous Arts and Cultures, and the Montreal Urban Aboriginal Community Strategy NETWORK. 

Ian Fried has been in the field of science and sustainability education for the last 5 years. He currently works at BioBus, a non-profit that promotes science education in New York City through their two mobile laboratories. He taught in public, charter and private schools in NYC and North India. After being back in the US, he decided he was going to try to send Zero Waste to landfills in his everyday life.  

[Ed Bear](http://www.exitrip.org/Main.html) is a performing artist and engineer. His work with robotics, sound, video, transmission and collective improvisation investigates the questionable calibration of perception. As an educator and designer committed to an open source world, he researches and practices material reuse and as a civil responsibility.


More speakers and facilitators to be announced. 

### How can I participate? 
 
Event is free and open to all. [Registration](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/code-ecologies-tickets-52863504164) is open. 

### Is the event accessible?

We will provide ASL interpretation, Real Time Captioning and support participants disability and access needs. If you have any access needs, please describe on the registration form. If you have specific questions, please contact Taeyoon Choi at (taeyoon@sfpc.io)

### Suggested readings 

- 	[Computing, Climate Change, and All Our Relationships](https://www.deconstructconf.com/2018/nabil-hassein-computing-climate-change-and-all-our-relationships) by Nabil Hassein  
- [Your Data Is Dirty: The Carbon Price of Cloud Computing](http://time.com/46777/your-data-is-dirty-the-carbon-price-of-cloud-computing/) - Bryan Walsh 
- [Tossed aside in the 'White Gold' rush](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/business/batteries/tossed-aside-in-the-lithium-rush/?noredirect=on) -  Todd C. Frankel and Peter Whoriskey
- [On the Rare Earth Frontier](http://digitalassets.lib.berkeley.edu/etd/ucb/text/Klinger_berkeley_0028E_15409.pdf) - Julie Michelle Klinger
- [Neodymium. Magnets: How Do They Work?](https://popula.com/2018/07/30/neodymium/) - Ingrid Burrington 
- [Terraforms or how to talk about the weather](http://dingdingding.org/issue-2/terraforms-or-how-to-talk-about-the-weather/) - Ingrid Burrington 
- [Handmade Computer and The Toaster Project](http://taeyoonchoi.com/poetic-computation/thomas-thwaites-and-taeyoon-choi/) - Thomas Thwaites and Taeyoon Choi
- [The Year in Weather](https://www.artforum.com/print/201710/the-year-in-weather-72467) - Keller Easterling  
- [Are Disability Rights and Animal Rights Connected?](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/persons-of-interest/are-disability-rights-and-animal-rights-connected) - Joshua Rothman
- [Park MacArthur](https://bombmagazine.org/articles/park-mcarthur/) - Jennifer Burris 

### What is expected of me?

- Read the suggested articles in advance, provided upon registration
- Adhere to the SFPC Code of Conduct, provided upon registration


### Will there be live-streaming?

A portion of the presentations will be live-streamed and recorded. Please follow [SFPC YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCJRxMPL2ZgzjLEemfFwmbPg).

### Where is SFPC?

We are located in 155 Bank street, in the courtyard of the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village, New York City.

### Contact Us

Feel free to contact Taeyoon Choi (taeyoon@sfpc.io) for any questions.

### Special thanks 

This event is made possible through the generous support from the [Shuttleworth Foundation](https://www.shuttleworthfoundation.org/) Flash Grant and Astra Taylor. 


![](/static/img/participate/shuttleworth.jpg )

Commit message:

co-organizers bio and youtube link update

codeecologies.md, after:

---
title: Code Ecologies
layout: participate2

---

![](/static/img/participate/codeecologies.jpg )

- December 15, 2018. 1~6pm 
- School for Poetic Computation, 155 Bank St, NYC
- [Free Registration](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/code-ecologies-tickets-52863504164), Limited seating
- ASL interpretation, Real Time Captioning, disability and access needs will be supported
- A portion of the event will be live-streamed and open for remote participation  
 
Code Ecologies is an open forum to explore the environmental impact of computation. This public event is organized by a group of faculty and alumni from the School for Poetic Computation who are passionate about environmental justice. Through presentations and discussions, we will explore the negative influence of computational technologies and network infrastructure on the natural environment, and the precarious conditions they create for the habitat we share among various species.

“Digital” is falsely seen as virtual or non physical, when in fact “cloud computing” doesn't happen in the clouds -- there are massive data centers, cooling facilities, fiber optic cables, mineral extraction, electronic waste, and other physical infrastructures. On the other side of the arms race for smarter and faster AI, there's a lack of understanding and accountability -- individual or organizational -- for how our use of machine learning, blockchain or 'whatever new' impacts the Earth. Tech companies offer forgiveness and even encouragement for misusing and abusing electronic devices, for example on Black Friday. Online services and apps create an illusion of seamless interaction between computational devices and data which evaporate into thin air after their life cycles. None of this make-believe is true. We need to challenge the disparity between the conveniences of smart devices, and our complicity with destructive technology, as users and creators.  

At the School for Poetic Computation, we approach code from artistic, poetic, critical and philosophical perspectives. Considering how poetry explores the transformative qualities of the language and computation enables transfer of information at scale, we hope to bring together activists, poets, scientists, artists and community members to discuss "What should we do about it?" 
 
Image by Sonia Boller. 

### Co-organizers 

[Taeyoon Choi](http://taeyoonchoi.com) is an artist, a co-founder of School for Poetic Computation, 2017-2018 fellow at Data and Society. Taeyoon is researching distributed network with a critical perspective towards technology, ethics, justice and sensitivity to the concept of personhood. 

[Nabil Hassein](https://nabilhassein.github.io/) has worked professionally as a software developer and a public school teacher, and has also done grassroots political organizing in New York City, primarily for police and prison abolition.

[Sonia Boller](https://soniaboller.herokuapp.com/) is passionate about creating immersive, interactive experiences. She worked with non-profit organizations to help them manage and visualize their data, and loves the idea of making complex data simpler through visualizations.

### Speakers and facilitators 

[Ingrid Burrington](http://lifewinning.com/) writes, makes maps, and tells jokes about places, politics, and the feelings people have about both. She’s the author of Networks of New York An Illustrated Field Guide to Urban Internet Infrastructure. Her work has been supported by Eyebeam, Data & Society, and the Center for Land Use Interpretation.

[Jamie Tyberg](https://twitter.com/jtbrg) is a Brooklyn-based movement fundraiser and climate activist. Born in South Korea, Jamie immigrated to the United States in 2002 and currently serves as the Development Director for New York Communities for Change, a grassroots organization of low-income members fighting against racial oppression and economic injustice. Jamie also helped found the National Ecosocialist Working Group of the Democratic Socialists of America, building a robust network of climate activists and organizers across the nation to combat the climate crisis.

[Elizabeth Guffey](https://www.purchase.edu/live/profiles/498-elizabeth-guffey) works at the intersection of art, design and disability studies. Her book Designing Disability: Symbols, Space and Society (Bloomsbury) that designs like the
International Symbol of Access or “wheelchair symbol” can alter the environment, making people more disabled or less, depending on the design’s planning and use. She is also Founding Editor of the academic journal Design and Culture. Guffey currently heads the MA in Modern and Contemporary Art, Criticism and Theory at the State
University of New York, Purchase College.

[Odile Joannette](http://www.wapikoni.ca/home) is the executive director of Wapikoni Mobile. She has been an advocate for Indigenous rights for close to 20 years, striving to improve the quality of life of Aboriginal people. She serves on the Order of Montreal's Board and has been handpicked to be one of 15 members of Montreal's Table on Diversity, Inclusion and the Fight Against Discrimination. She is a founding member and administrator of both DestiNATIONS: Carrefour International of Indigenous Arts and Cultures, and the Montreal Urban Aboriginal Community Strategy NETWORK. 

Ian Fried has been in the field of science and sustainability education for the last 5 years. He currently works at [BioBus](http://www.biobus.org/), a non-profit that promotes science education in New York City through their two mobile laboratories. He taught in public, charter and private schools in NYC and North India. After being back in the US, he decided he was going to try to send Zero Waste to landfills in his everyday life.  

[Ed Bear](http://www.exitrip.org/Main.html) is a performing artist and engineer. His work with robotics, sound, video, transmission and collective improvisation investigates the questionable calibration of perception. As an educator and designer committed to an open source world, he researches and practices material reuse and as a civil responsibility.


More speakers and facilitators to be announced. 

### How can I participate? 
 
Event is free and open to all. [RSVP](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/code-ecologies-tickets-52863504164)

### Is the event accessible?

We will provide ASL interpretation, Real Time Captioning and support participants disability and access based on needs. If you have any access needs, please describe on the registration form. 

If you want to participate remotely via shared documents, chat channel and video, please contact the organizers via Taeyoon Choi at (taeyoon@sfpc.io)

### Suggested readings 

- 	[Computing, Climate Change, and All Our Relationships](https://www.deconstructconf.com/2018/nabil-hassein-computing-climate-change-and-all-our-relationships) by Nabil Hassein  
- [Your Data Is Dirty: The Carbon Price of Cloud Computing](http://time.com/46777/your-data-is-dirty-the-carbon-price-of-cloud-computing/) - Bryan Walsh 
- [Tossed aside in the 'White Gold' rush](https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/business/batteries/tossed-aside-in-the-lithium-rush/?noredirect=on) -  Todd C. Frankel and Peter Whoriskey
- [On the Rare Earth Frontier](http://digitalassets.lib.berkeley.edu/etd/ucb/text/Klinger_berkeley_0028E_15409.pdf) - Julie Michelle Klinger
- [Neodymium. Magnets: How Do They Work?](https://popula.com/2018/07/30/neodymium/) - Ingrid Burrington 
- [Terraforms or how to talk about the weather](http://dingdingding.org/issue-2/terraforms-or-how-to-talk-about-the-weather/) - Ingrid Burrington 
- [Handmade Computer and The Toaster Project](http://taeyoonchoi.com/poetic-computation/thomas-thwaites-and-taeyoon-choi/) - Thomas Thwaites and Taeyoon Choi
- [The Year in Weather](https://www.artforum.com/print/201710/the-year-in-weather-72467) - Keller Easterling  
- [Are Disability Rights and Animal Rights Connected?](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/persons-of-interest/are-disability-rights-and-animal-rights-connected) - Joshua Rothman
- [Park MacArthur](https://bombmagazine.org/articles/park-mcarthur/) - Jennifer Burris 
- [Ethics and Archiving the Web](http://distributedweb.care/posts/eaw/) - Distributed Web of Care 

### What is expected of me?

- Read the suggested articles in advance, provided upon registration
- Adhere to the SFPC Code of Conduct, provided upon registration


### Will there be live-streaming?

A portion of the presentations will be live-streamed and recorded. Please follow [SFPC YouTube channel](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BsN_2oYnbLo).

### Where is SFPC?

We are located in 155 Bank street, in the courtyard of the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village, New York City.

### Contact Us

Feel free to contact Taeyoon Choi (taeyoon@sfpc.io) for any questions, press inquiries and sponsorship opportunities. 

### Special thanks 

This event is made possible through the generous support from the [Shuttleworth Foundation](https://www.shuttleworthfoundation.org/) Flash Grant and Astra Taylor. 


![](/static/img/participate/shuttleworth.jpg )
