codesocieties-winter-19.md, before:

---
title: Code Societies Winter 2019
layout: participate
slides:
 - "/static/img/participate/codesocieties_poster_wide.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_outside.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/allisonp.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_lunch.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/a.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/b.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/c.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/d.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/e.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/g.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/h.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/i.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/j.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/k.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/l.jpg"

---

## Call for Students: Code Societies
- Three-Week Session, Monday January 7th - Saturday January 26th
- @ SFPC, 155 Bank street, West Village, NYC
- 6:30pm - 9:30pm, Evening Classes
- [Apply now!](https://airtable.com/shrbFALyK5MRnXpP1)


SFPC’s winter intensive will examine the ideological and corporeal attributes of computation, concentrating on the poetics and politics of culturally embedded software. How do different platforms and processes — including algorithms, data collection, social media, infrastructure, and interface — yield distinct modes of seeing, thinking, feeling, and reinforce existing systems of power? Through a balanced study of critical theory, and hands-on coding workshops, students will create small projects that explore and question these ideas.

The session will begin with a brief introduction to programming with Python and navigating the command line. No coding experience necessary; an enthusiastic willingness to reconsider how code shapes and is shaped by society required!

Central to Code Societies is understanding technology as culture and culture as social technology. Students are encouraged to engage with code and the ways code acts on our bodies and networks equally as subject and as medium. Similarly, Code Societies is both this session’s subject and it’s prompt; an invitation to consider coding and choreographing new ways of being in relation with each other.

Student’s should expect to develop several small scores or sketch pieces that may exist online, on screens, performed, or installed.

*“Technology is not neutral. We're inside of what we make, and it's inside of us. We're living in a world of connections — and it matters which ones get made and unmade.”* - Donna Haraway


### Who are the teachers?
- [**Melanie Hoff**](http://melanie-hoff.com/) (*2 Classes - Lead Organizer, On-Site Support*) - Artist, researcher, and educator examining technology's influence on social conventions, political rhetoric, and the ways in which economies of behavior reveal distributions of power. They teach at Mason Gross School of the Arts at Rutgers University and is a member of the [Cybernetics Library](https://cybernetics.social/) collective.
- [**Allison Parrish**](http://www.decontextualize.com/) (*2 Classes*) - Allison is a computer programmer, poet, educator and game designer whose teaching and practice address the unusual phenomena that blossom when language and computers meet. She teaches at NYU's Interactive Telecommunications Program.
- [**Ingrid Burrington**](lifewinning.com) (*2 Classes*) - Ingrid Burrington writes, makes maps, and tells jokes about places, politics, and the feelings people have about both. She’s the author of Networks of New York An Illustrated Field Guide to Urban Internet Infrastructure. Her work has been supported by Eyebeam, Data & Society, and the Center for Land Use Interpretation.
- [**American Artist**](https://americanartist.us/) (*1 Class*) - American is an interdisciplinary artist whose work extends dialectics formalized in Black radicalism and organized labor into a context of networked virtual life. Their practice makes use of video, installation, new media, and writing to reveal historical dynamics embedded within contemporary culture and technology.
- [**Taeyoon Choi**](http://taeyoonchoi.com/) (*1 Class, Session Advisor*) - Taeyoon is an artist, a co-founder of School for Poetic Computation, a former fellow at Data and Society and an adjunct professor at NYU ITP. In 2018, Taeyoon is working on [Distributed Web of Care](http://taeyoonchoi.com/soft-care/distributed-web-of-care/) and ongoing research with a critical perspective towards technology, ethics, justice and sensitivity to the concept of personhood.
- [**Everest Pipkin**](http://www.decontextualize.com/) (*1 Class*) - Everest is a drawing, language and software artist whose work follows landscape as complicated by the advent of digital space. They produce intimate work with large data sets.
- [**Dan Taeyoung**](http://www.dantaeyoung.com/) (*1 Class*) - Dan dreams of, and creates, cybernetic architectures, infrastructures for care, ethical pedagogy, and warm cooperatives. He teaches at the Graduate School of Architecture Planning and Preservation at Columbia University.


- 15 class days in total with a final presentation. More teachers and speakers to be announced!


![](/static/img/participate/codesocieties_poster_s.jpg)


### What will happen in these three weeks?
Classes are held in the evenings Monday-Friday from 6:30-9:30pm with a day off on Martin Luther King Day January 21st. SFPC space will be open for students on weekdays between 4pm-6pm. The session will culminate in a party on the evening of Saturday January 26th, where students can invite their friends and present their favorite projects.

Students will have full access to the space during open hours for the three weeks of the session to work on projects between classes and mentors will be readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance.

### How do I apply?
[Apply now!](https://airtable.com/shrbFALyK5MRnXpP1)

We accept up to 18 students on a rolling basis. We will respond to your application within 3 weeks of submission. Rolling admissions means there are fewer and fewer slots the longer you wait, so if you’re interested in the program get your application in early!

### How competitive is the admissions?

SFPC admissions is highly competitive. Every session, we receive up to 80 applicants and select 18. We focus on creating diversity among our student body. We work with a group of alumni and teachers to review and select students based on their work samples and essays.  

### How much is tuition?
$3,000 USD for the 3-week program. You’ll also need to cover your own cost of living, including housing and meals (recent alumni report this to be in the range of $800 - $1400). Upon acceptance, payment of full tuition, your space in the class will be reserved. SFPC tuition goes directly to paying for the teachers, organizers, materials and space that make sessions like this possible.

### Do you offer scholarship?

We are completely self-funded, which dramatically limits our ability to offer scholarships. In Code Societies, we are offering three work-study opportunity to a qualified applicant who would be expected to work 5 hrs/week in exchange for a 50% reduction of tuition.  We’re particularly looking out for women, people of color, disabled person, people under-represented in the field of art + technology, and those with financial need.

Please note that if you apply for work study, we will consider your application separately from the general admissions applications, since we have little flexibility regarding scholarships. This is for people who absolutely need assistance to participate in SFPC. Occasionally, students have received support from cultural foundations, schools or current employers and we are happy to provide supporting materials as proof of acceptance.  

### Cancellation and refund policy

- If you are accepted and need to cancel, we can give you 100% refund up to December 15th, 2018.
- 50% refund between December 15th – December 31st, 2018.
- 25% refund between January 1st – January 6th, 2018.
- No refunds can be given after the first day of class.
- Participation is not transferrable to another person.


### What is expected of me?

- Come to all classes and thoughtfully engage with your classmates and teachers.
- We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open.
- We welcome students with a broad array of technical experiences–no coding experience is required, but a basic comfort level with technology is preferred.
- B.Y.O.Laptop (Mac / PC / Linux)


### Where is SFPC?

We are located in 155 Bank street, in the courtyard of the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village, New York City.

### Contact Us

Feel free to contact Code Societies lead organizer Melanie Hoff ([hoffmelanie@gmail.com](mailto:hoffmelanie@gmail.com)) with any questions about the Code Societies session, or [info@sfpc.io](mailto:info@sfpc.io) for any general questions about finances or the school.

Image credits: Taeyoon Choi, Melanie Hoff, April Soeterman

Commit message:

blog posts and link to 2018

codesocieties-winter-19.md, after:

---
title: Code Societies Winter 2019
layout: participate
slides:
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/wb.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/bw.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_outside.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/allisonp.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_lunch.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/a.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/b.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/c.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/d.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/e.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/g.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/h.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/i.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/j.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/k.jpg"
 - "/static/img/codesocieties/l.jpg"

---

## Call for Students: Code Societies
- Three-Week Session, Monday January 7th - Saturday January 26th
- @ SFPC, 155 Bank street, West Village, NYC
- 6:30pm - 9:30pm, Evening Classes
- [Apply now!](https://airtable.com/shrbFALyK5MRnXpP1)


SFPC’s winter intensive will examine the ideological and corporeal attributes of computation, concentrating on the poetics and politics of culturally embedded software. How do different platforms and processes — including algorithms, data collection, social media, infrastructure, and interface — yield distinct modes of seeing, thinking, feeling, and reinforce existing systems of power? Through a balanced study of critical theory, and hands-on coding workshops, students will create small projects that explore and question these ideas.

The session will begin with a brief introduction to programming with Python and navigating the command line. No coding experience necessary; an enthusiastic willingness to reconsider how code shapes and is shaped by society required!

Central to Code Societies is understanding technology as culture and culture as social technology. Students are encouraged to engage with code and the ways code acts on our bodies and networks equally as subject and as medium. Similarly, Code Societies is both this session’s subject and it’s prompt; an invitation to consider coding and choreographing new ways of being in relation with each other.

Student’s should expect to develop several small scores or sketch pieces that may exist online, on screens, performed, or installed.

*“Technology is not neutral. We're inside of what we make, and it's inside of us. We're living in a world of connections — and it matters which ones get made and unmade.”* - Donna Haraway


### Who are the teachers?
- [**Melanie Hoff**](http://melanie-hoff.com/) (*2 Classes - Lead Organizer, On-Site Support*) - Artist, researcher, and educator examining technology's influence on social conventions, political rhetoric, and the ways in which economies of behavior reveal distributions of power. They teach at Mason Gross School of the Arts at Rutgers University and is a member of the [Cybernetics Library](https://cybernetics.social/) collective.
- [**Allison Parrish**](http://www.decontextualize.com/) (*2 Classes*) - Allison is a computer programmer, poet, educator and game designer whose teaching and practice address the unusual phenomena that blossom when language and computers meet. She teaches at NYU's Interactive Telecommunications Program.
- [**Ingrid Burrington**](lifewinning.com) (*2 Classes*) - Ingrid Burrington writes, makes maps, and tells jokes about places, politics, and the feelings people have about both. She’s the author of Networks of New York An Illustrated Field Guide to Urban Internet Infrastructure. Her work has been supported by Eyebeam, Data & Society, and the Center for Land Use Interpretation.
- [**American Artist**](https://americanartist.us/) (*1 Class*) - American is an interdisciplinary artist whose work extends dialectics formalized in Black radicalism and organized labor into a context of networked virtual life. Their practice makes use of video, installation, new media, and writing to reveal historical dynamics embedded within contemporary culture and technology.
- [**Taeyoon Choi**](http://taeyoonchoi.com/) (*1 Class, Session Advisor*) - Taeyoon is an artist, a co-founder of School for Poetic Computation, a former fellow at Data and Society and an adjunct professor at NYU ITP. In 2018, Taeyoon is working on [Distributed Web of Care](http://taeyoonchoi.com/soft-care/distributed-web-of-care/) and ongoing research with a critical perspective towards technology, ethics, justice and sensitivity to the concept of personhood.
- [**Everest Pipkin**](http://www.decontextualize.com/) (*1 Class*) - Everest is a drawing, language and software artist whose work follows landscape as complicated by the advent of digital space. They produce intimate work with large data sets.
- [**Dan Taeyoung**](http://www.dantaeyoung.com/) (*1 Class*) - Dan dreams of, and creates, cybernetic architectures, infrastructures for care, ethical pedagogy, and warm cooperatives. He teaches at the Graduate School of Architecture Planning and Preservation at Columbia University.


- 15 class days in total with a final presentation. More teachers and speakers to be announced!

### Code Societies Summer 2018 Syllabi
- [https://github.com/SFPC/codesocieties/blob/master/README.md](https://github.com/SFPC/codesocieties/blob/master/README.md)

### Code Societies Summer 2018 Blog Posts
- [Code Societies: An Introduction with Melanie Hoff & Taeyoon Choi](https://medium.com/sfpc/code-societies-an-introduction-57de026c7c3b)
- [Authoring Text Under Control with Allison Parrish](https://medium.com/sfpc/authoring-text-under-control-from-automatic-writing-to-autocomplete-673df0593bfa)
- [Smarter Home with Lauren McCarthy](https://medium.com/sfpc/smarter-home-baeed9dbd512)
- [Hacking the Attention Economy with dana boyd](https://medium.com/sfpc/code-societies-2018-day-3-danah-boyd-f928ef747087)
- [Software as Ideology with American Artist](https://medium.com/sfpc/software-as-ideology-6ad1091ef929)
- [Sorting Things Out with Shannon Mattern](https://medium.com/sfpc/sorting-things-out-b06d39cfa37e)
- [Diversity & Inclusion in Surveillance AI with Sara Aoun](https://medium.com/sfpc/diversity-inclusion-in-surveillance-ai-12d6be789f5f)
- [Social Network Paintings with Melanie Hoff & Dan Taeyoung](https://medium.com/sfpc/social-network-paintings-210816b51cde)
- [Distributed Web of Care with Taeyoon Choi](https://medium.com/sfpc/distributed-web-of-care-8847a144487b)
- [Code Societies Summer 2018: Student Showcase](https://medium.com/sfpc/code-societies-2018-student-showcase-df35e9c95b71)


![](/static/img/codesocieties/bw.jpg)


### What will happen in these three weeks?
Classes are held in the evenings Monday-Friday from 6:30-9:30pm with a day off on Martin Luther King Day January 21st. SFPC space will be open for students on weekdays between 4pm-6pm. The session will culminate in a party on the evening of Saturday January 26th, where students can invite their friends and present their favorite projects.

Students will have full access to the space during open hours for the three weeks of the session to work on projects between classes and mentors will be readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance.

### How do I apply?
[Apply now!](https://airtable.com/shrbFALyK5MRnXpP1)

We accept up to 18 students on a rolling basis. We will respond to your application within 3 weeks of submission. Rolling admissions means there are fewer and fewer slots the longer you wait, so if you’re interested in the program get your application in early!

### How competitive is the admissions?

SFPC admissions is highly competitive. Every session, we receive up to 80 applicants and select 18. We focus on creating diversity among our student body. We work with a group of alumni and teachers to review and select students based on their work samples and essays.  

### How much is tuition?
$3,000 USD for the 3-week program. You’ll also need to cover your own cost of living, including housing and meals (recent alumni report this to be in the range of $800 - $1400). Upon acceptance, payment of full tuition, your space in the class will be reserved. SFPC tuition goes directly to paying for the teachers, organizers, materials and space that make sessions like this possible.

### Do you offer scholarship?

We are completely self-funded, which dramatically limits our ability to offer scholarships. In Code Societies, we are offering three work-study opportunity to a qualified applicant who would be expected to work 5 hrs/week in exchange for a 50% reduction of tuition.  We’re particularly looking out for women, people of color, disabled person, people under-represented in the field of art + technology, and those with financial need.

Please note that if you apply for work study, we will consider your application separately from the general admissions applications, since we have little flexibility regarding scholarships. This is for people who absolutely need assistance to participate in SFPC. Occasionally, students have received support from cultural foundations, schools or current employers and we are happy to provide supporting materials as proof of acceptance.  

### Cancellation and refund policy

- If you are accepted and need to cancel, we can give you 100% refund up to December 15th, 2018.
- 50% refund between December 15th – December 31st, 2018.
- 25% refund between January 1st – January 6th, 2018.
- No refunds can be given after the first day of class.
- Participation is not transferrable to another person.


### What is expected of me?

- Come to all classes and thoughtfully engage with your classmates and teachers.
- We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open.
- We welcome students with a broad array of technical experiences–no coding experience is required, but a basic comfort level with technology is preferred.
- B.Y.O.Laptop (Mac / PC / Linux)


### Where is SFPC?

We are located in 155 Bank street, in the courtyard of the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village, New York City.

### Contact Us

Feel free to contact Code Societies lead organizer Melanie Hoff ([hoffmelanie@gmail.com](mailto:hoffmelanie@gmail.com)) with any questions about the Code Societies session, or [info@sfpc.io](mailto:info@sfpc.io) for any general questions about finances or the school.

Image credits: Taeyoon Choi, Melanie Hoff, April Soeterman
