detroit.md, before:

---
title: Detroit
layout: participate


---

***
<!-- -
slides:

 - "/static/img/participate/totallyrad.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/notebook.jpg"
- "/static/img/participate/softcircuits.jpg"
- "/static/img/participate/totallyrad.jpg"


 - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_lunch.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/summer15_wall_new.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/goldenhour.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/workshop.jpg"
 - "/static/img/participate/notebook.jpg" -->



![](/static/img/detroit/mocad.jpg)
Study Group, Mike Kelley’s Mobile Homestead at MOCAD, 2019.


## Poetic Computation: Detroit 2019 

- 1 week session: August 19-25, 2019.  
- Location: Talking Dolls, 17471 Van Dyke St, Detroit, MI 48234
- Fee: Sliding scale $0~500. 
- **Apply [here](https://airtable.com/shrwis42pddecU2gA) by July 1, 2019.**

Please join School for Poetic Computation (SFPC) for a summer session in Detroit, Michigan. Daily classes range from computational poetry, building electronics, critical theory and the history of the manufacturing industry in Detroit. There are lectures, student-led skill sharing sessions and workshops with visiting artists, walking tours, field trips to community spaces and family dinners. Together we will uncover how coding is more than what happens behind your screen. 

We are specifically looking for Detroit-based practitioners including artists, designers, activists and educators. We will prioritize applicants who are underrepresented in art and tech spaces, including but not limited to, people who identify as Queer and Trans people of color (QTPOC) and/or Disabled, Deaf or Hard of Hearing (HoH). Students of all levels of coding experiences are welcome! We encourage patience to learn the fundamentals. We encourage you to be willing to to reconsider your relationship to technology, habits and the larger environment. We are supported by Detroit-based organizations including the [Detroit Community Technology Project](https://www.alliedmedia.org/dctp) and the [Talking Dolls](http://talkingdollsdetroit.com/).  

![](/static/img/detroit/roomproject1.jpg)
Poetic Computation Workshop at the Room Project, Detroit, 2019. 


### What will happen during the week? 

Classes are held in the evenings with workshops and field trips in the afternoon throughout Sunday-Saturday from 1-9:30pm. We will program in family dinners and relaxation time. The session will end with a student showcase and party on a Saturday afternoon in August, where students can invite their family and friends to see presentations of their favorite class projects.

Students will have access to the tools and materials for the week of the session to work on projects. Mentors will be readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance.

![](/static/img/detroit/talkingdolls.jpg)
SFPC organizers and Talking Dolls, Detroit, 2019.



### What are SFPC classes like? 

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/279146924?title=0&byline=0&portrait=0" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
Video by Spring 2018 student Nitcha Fame Tothong.

Check out more weekly video recaps of past classes [here](https://vimeo.com/user50134452), our [blog](https://medium.com/sfpc) and [Instagram](https://instagram.com/sfpc_nyc).

![](/static/img/participate/totallyrad.jpg)
Poetic Science Fair, community program at the Silent Barn, 2015. 

![](/static/img/detroit/galen.jpg)
Project by Fall 2018 student Galen Macdonald, 2018. 

![](/static/img/detroit/neta.jpg)
Project by Fall 2018 student Neta Bomani, 2018. 

![](/static/img/detroit/yelli.jpg)
Project by Spring 2018 student Sean Catangui, 2018. 

![](/static/img/detroit/nabil.jpg)
Project by Spring 2018 student Nabil Hassein, 2018 

### How does the application process work? 

**Apply [here](https://airtable.com/shrwis42pddecU2gA) by July 1, 2019.**

We accept up to 15 students based on their application and video interview. Our program is inclusive of beginners with no prior experience with art or  technology. SFPC and Detroit-based partners will select students with clear intention for joining the camp, and those who have a plan to share the knowledge with their community. Application Deadline is July 1. We will respond to your application by July 15. We anticipate the admission will be highly competitive. We encourage you to apply early!  

SFPC is committed to building a safe environment free of discrimination and harassment. No form of harassment will be tolerated. Harassment includes, but is not limited to verbal comments that reinforce social structures of domination related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, skill level, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age, or religion.
 
All application decisions at SFPC are based on educational needs, accessibility needs and individual needs and qualifications, without hegemonic regard to race, color, religion or belief, family or parental status, or any other status. SFPC does not tolerate discrimination or harassment based on any of these characteristics. SFPC encourages applicants of all ages, disabilities and educational backgrounds.

### Why are we running the session in Detroit?

We respect the complex and rich history of Detroit as a city of resilient creatives. We are inspired by Detroit-based artists and collectives such as [Complex Movements](https://emergencemedia.org/pages/complex-movements), an artist collective supporting the transformation of communities by exploring the connections of complex science and social justice movements through multimedia interactive performance work. We are inspired by the acclaimed [Allied Media Conference](https://www.alliedmedia.org/amc) for DIY media makers and activists. We are inspired by [Raven Stubbs](https://www.ravenstubbs.com/), whose project at Recess Art involved a “workshop series and ethnodramaturgical project exploring the role of class within contemporary Black life and community.” 


We are learning about the challenges of outsiders approaching cities like Detroit. In [Transplant exploits: Detroit’s savior complex](http://arts.black/2016/04/transplant-exploits-detroits-savior-complex/), [Taylor Renee Aldridge](https://www.taylorrenee.info/) wrote, “I urge you to consider the lives that have been lived here. The trauma experienced in these lives. Loss of homes, jobs, and other prized possessions. Consider these narratives as you aim to locate remedies for innovation. We, as Detroiters, welcome change but not at the expense of exploiting our own narratives and spaces for your personal gain." Read more about our intentions in our [blog post](https://medium.com/sfpc/poetic-computation-detroit-b748b765afbb). 
 
### How much is tuition?

Tuition is $0-500 on a sliding scale. If you make more than the Detroit median income of $27,838, according to the U.S. Census in 2018, please let us know how much you are willing to pay. No prospective students will be turned away for lack of funds. SFPC tuition goes directly to paying for the teachers, organizers, materials and space that make sessions like this possible. 

### What is expected of me?

- Participate in all classes and thoughtfully engage with your classmates and teachers.
- Adhere to the SFPC Code of Conduct. 
- Participate in the Student Showcase. 
- We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open.
- We welcome students with a broad array of technical experiences–no coding experience is required, but a basic comfort level with technology is preferred.
- If you can, please bring your own laptop (Mac/PC/Linux). Some laptops will be provided for students in need.


### Where is the session located?

The session will be hosted at Talking Dolls, an experimental studio on the east side at 17471 Van Dyke St, Detroit, MI 48234.  

### Organizers 

![](/static/img/detroit/teachers.jpg)

*SFPC Teachers: American Artist, Sam Lavigne, Lauren Gardner, Nabil Hassein, Taeyoon Choi, April Soetarman* 


Poetic Computation: Detroit is organized by Taeyoon Choi, Lauren Gardner, Melanie Hoff, Neta Bomani with SFPC teachers and alums. Detroit-based partners and collaborators include the Detroit Community Technology Project, the Talking Dolls, the Work Department and more.  

### Support

Poetic Computation: Detroit is supported by the [Knight Foundation](https://knightfoundation.org). 

### Contact us

Feel free to contact us with any questions about the summer camp at info@sfpc.io.

Commit message:

updates on Detroit page, slideshow images, language around laptops

detroit.md, after:

---
title: Detroit 2019
layout: participate
slides:

  - "/static/img/detroit/dctp.jpg"
  - "/static/img/detroit/netaandtawana.jpg"
  - "/static/img/detroit/taeyoonandkim.jpg"
  - "/static/img/detroit/melanie.jpg"

---

***

## Poetic Computation: Detroit 2019 

- 1 week session: August 19-25, 2019.  
- Location: Talking Dolls, 17471 Van Dyke St, Detroit, MI 48234
- Fee: Sliding scale $0~500. 
- **Apply [here](https://airtable.com/shrwis42pddecU2gA) by July 1, 2019.**

Please join School for Poetic Computation (SFPC) in partnership with the [Talking Dolls](http://talkingdollsdetroit.com/) for a summer session in Detroit, Michigan. Daily classes range from computational poetry, building electronics, critical theory and the history of the manufacturing industry in Detroit. There are lectures, student-led skill sharing sessions and workshops with visiting artists, walking tours, field trips to community spaces and family dinners. Together we will uncover how coding is more than what happens behind your screen. 

We are specifically looking for Detroit-based practitioners including artists, designers, activists and educators. We will prioritize applicants who are underrepresented in art and tech spaces, including but not limited to, people who identify as Queer and Trans people of color (QTPOC) and/or Disabled, Deaf or Hard of Hearing (HoH). Students of all levels of coding experiences are welcome! We encourage patience to learn the fundamentals. We encourage you to be willing to to reconsider your relationship to technology, habits and the larger environment. We are supported by Detroit-based organizations including the [Detroit Community Technology Project](https://www.alliedmedia.org/dctp) and the [Room Project](https://www.roomproject.org/).  

![](/static/img/detroit/roomproject1.jpg)
Poetic Computation Workshop at the Room Project, Detroit, 2019. 


### What will happen during the week? 

Classes are held in the evenings with workshops and field trips in the afternoon throughout Sunday-Saturday from 1-9:30pm. We will program in family dinners and relaxation time. The session will end with a student showcase and party on a Saturday afternoon in August, where students can invite their family and friends to see presentations of their favorite class projects.

Students will have access to the tools and materials for the week of the session to work on projects. Mentors will be readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance.

![](/static/img/detroit/talkingdolls.jpg)
SFPC organizers and Talking Dolls, Detroit, 2019.



### What are SFPC classes like? 

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/279146924?title=0&byline=0&portrait=0" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>
Video by Spring 2018 student Nitcha Fame Tothong.

Check out more weekly video recaps of past classes [here](https://vimeo.com/user50134452), our [blog](https://medium.com/sfpc) and [Instagram](https://instagram.com/sfpc_nyc).

![](/static/img/participate/totallyrad.jpg)
Poetic Science Fair, community program at the Silent Barn, 2015. 

![](/static/img/detroit/galen.jpg)
Project by Fall 2018 student Galen Macdonald, 2018. 

![](/static/img/detroit/neta.jpg)
Project by Fall 2018 student Neta Bomani, 2018. 

![](/static/img/detroit/yelli.jpg)
Project by Spring 2018 student Sean Catangui, 2018. 

![](/static/img/detroit/nabil.jpg)
Project by Spring 2018 student Nabil Hassein, 2018 

### How does the application process work? 

**Apply [here](https://airtable.com/shrwis42pddecU2gA) by July 1, 2019.**

We accept up to 15 students based on their application and video interview. Our program is inclusive of beginners with no prior experience with art or  technology. SFPC and Detroit-based partners will select students with clear intention for joining the camp, and those who have a plan to share the knowledge with their community. Application Deadline is July 1. We will respond to your application by July 15. We anticipate the admission will be highly competitive. We encourage you to apply early!  

SFPC is committed to building a safe environment free of discrimination and harassment. No form of harassment will be tolerated. Harassment includes, but is not limited to verbal comments that reinforce social structures of domination related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, skill level, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, age, or religion.
 
All application decisions at SFPC are based on educational needs, accessibility needs and individual needs and qualifications, without hegemonic regard to race, color, religion or belief, family or parental status, or any other status. SFPC does not tolerate discrimination or harassment based on any of these characteristics. SFPC encourages applicants of all ages, disabilities and educational backgrounds.

### Why are we running the session in Detroit?

We respect the complex and rich history of Detroit as a city of resilient creatives. We are inspired by Detroit-based artists and collectives such as [Complex Movements](https://emergencemedia.org/pages/complex-movements), an artist collective supporting the transformation of communities by exploring the connections of complex science and social justice movements through multimedia interactive performance work. We are inspired by the acclaimed [Allied Media Conference](https://www.alliedmedia.org/amc) for DIY media makers and activists. We are inspired by [Raven Stubbs](https://www.ravenstubbs.com/), whose project at Recess Art involved a “workshop series and ethnodramaturgical project exploring the role of class within contemporary Black life and community.” 


We are learning about the challenges of outsiders approaching cities like Detroit. In [Transplant exploits: Detroit’s savior complex](http://arts.black/2016/04/transplant-exploits-detroits-savior-complex/), [Taylor Renee Aldridge](https://www.taylorrenee.info/) wrote, “I urge you to consider the lives that have been lived here. The trauma experienced in these lives. Loss of homes, jobs, and other prized possessions. Consider these narratives as you aim to locate remedies for innovation. We, as Detroiters, welcome change but not at the expense of exploiting our own narratives and spaces for your personal gain." Read more about our intentions in our [blog post](https://medium.com/sfpc/poetic-computation-detroit-b748b765afbb). 


### How much is tuition?

Tuition is $0-500 on a sliding scale. If you make more than the Detroit median income of $27,838, according to the U.S. Census in 2018, please let us know how much you are willing to pay. No prospective students will be turned away for lack of funds. SFPC tuition goes directly to paying for the teachers, organizers, materials and space that make sessions like this possible. 

### What is expected of me?

- Participate in all classes and thoughtfully engage with your classmates and teachers.
- Adhere to the SFPC Code of Conduct. 
- Participate in the Student Showcase. 
- We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open.
- We welcome students with a broad array of technical experiences–no coding experience is required, but a basic comfort level with technology is preferred.
- If you can, please bring your own laptop (Mac/PC/Linux). Some laptops will be provided for students in need.


### Where is the session located?

The session will be hosted at Talking Dolls, an experimental studio on the east side at 17471 Van Dyke St, Detroit, MI 48234.  

### Organizers 

![](/static/img/detroit/teachers.jpg)

*SFPC Teachers: American Artist, Sam Lavigne, Lauren Gardner, Nabil Hassein, Taeyoon Choi, April Soetarman* 


Poetic Computation: Detroit is organized by Taeyoon Choi, Lauren Gardner, Melanie Hoff, Neta Bomani with SFPC teachers and alums. Detroit-based partners and collaborators include the Detroit Community Technology Project, the Talking Dolls, the Work Department and more.  

Co-organizers 
- [Taeyoon Choi](https://taeyoonchoi.com) 
- [Lauren Gardner](https://poohead.com) 
- [Melanie Hoff](https://melanie-hoff.com)
- [Neta Bomani](https://netabomani.com) 

Teachers 
- [American Artist](https://americanartist.us) 
- [Ann Haeyoung](https://a-tbd.com/) 
- [Colin Wong](https://www.colinwangdesign.com) 
- [Nabil Hassein](http://nabilhassein.github.io/about) 
- More Detroit-based teachers to be announced soon. 

![](/static/img/detroit/mocad.jpg)
Study Group, Mike Kelley’s Mobile Homestead at MOCAD, 2019.


### Support

Poetic Computation: Detroit is supported by the [Knight Foundation](https://knightfoundation.org). 

Slideshow photographs by Russel Stewart. 

### Contact us

Feel free to contact us with any questions about the summer camp at info@sfpc.io.
