fall2016.md, before:

---
title: Fall 2016
layout: participate
slides:

  - "/static/img/participate/door.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/catarina.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/dayfornight_crowd.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/dinner2.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/summer15_wall.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/bagels.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/poeticsciencefair.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/goldenhour.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/breadboard.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/circuits.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/workshop.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/notebook.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/softcircuits.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/havefun.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/totallyrad.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/dinner.jpg"
---

***

### Fall 2016 Immersive 
- Ten-Week Session ~ Oct. 10th - Dec. 16th
- @ SFPC in the West Village, NYC

Daily classes that range from programming, electronics, and the history and theory of art and technology. There are student-led skill sharing sessions, lectures and workshops with visiting artists, visits to institutions, schools, art spaces and dinners with special guests.

We will select up to 12 participants for the session. Classes vary in length and are usually held Monday-Friday between 10am and 5pm. 

Students have full access to the space to work on projects between classes with teachers and mentors readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance. Peer to peer collaboration is highly encouraged among participants and at the end of the session we celebrate with a final student showcase where you get to share your projects with the larger SFPC community.

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">Apply to the Fall 2016 Session <a href="http://goo.gl/forms/oY2Loh3PCfEA754K2">here</a>.
</div>

### What classes will happen during the session?

We have not finalized the classes for the Fall intensive session but they are typically structured around the following concepts:

- **Computation and artistic practice** — Algorithmic processes and concepts have been manifest in art and design throughout the twentieth century. How can we explore the influence of algorithms in practice and develop new approaches and techniques for utilizing them? What is the fundamental nature of computation and how can we work with it in a lyrical, expressive manner? How can code make things move in compelling and lifelike ways through animation and interaction?
- **Pedagogy, strategies for learning and teaching** — How do you learn new things? What sorts of environments and communities foster a nurturing space and an ongoing practice of learning? 
- **Language design as creative practice** — Every programming language has specific parameters and demands certain processes in its use, we consider the subtle differences and approaches that have shaped various languages throughout history. This area focuses also on ways to design programming languages from scratch and asks how can language design open up new ways of thinking, making and building software? How can we build better tools and with that, better possibilities for ourselves?
- **Electronics and physical computing** — What are the fundamental building blocks for electronic computer? How do transistors, resistors and capacitors work? How can we use binary logic gates to create adding and remembering machines? How does CPU work? How have micro-controllers made physical computing more accessible?
- **Theory and philosophy for technology** — With contemporary society and our collective future irrevocably changed by ubiquitous technology, what critical questions can we, the makers, artists and technologists pose to society? What can we learn from the history of technology and how can we draft the future we like to see?
- **Urban space and architecture** - We will explore playful intervention in the public space. What are interesting ways of connecting spaces? skateboarding?  
- **Building the commons** — The degree of access to artistic computational tools is largely a product of race, gender, sexuality, geography, and class. How can we use our skills and resources to bridge these divides? This area focuses on developing teaching tools, systems, and approaches to help bring poetic computation to diverse communities.
 
The idea behind these interconnected topics is to build on SFPC’s core curriculum by exploring common ground where we can take the ideas developed in our classroom into the streets and studio. We see them as platforms to help promote fearless prototyping, asking difficult questions, and creating projects that embody issues that are not yet commonly addressed in the art / tech world.

### Who are the teachers?

Specific teachers and visiting artists will be announced soon but here are a few folks who work with us: [Zachary Lieberman](http://thesystemis.com/), [Taeyoon Choi](http://taeyoonchoi.com/), [Amit Pitaru](http://pitaru.com/), [Allison Burtch](http://www.allisonburtch.net/), [Allison Parrish](http://www.decontextualize.com/), [Caitlin Morris](http://www.caitlinmorris.net/) and [Ramsey Nasser](http://nas.sr/), [Sam Lavigne](http://lav.io), [Ingrid Burrington](http://lifewinning.com/), [Todd Anderson](http://hotwriting.net/) and others.

Additional support will be provided by the SFPC Steering Committee: [Ida Benedetto](http://uncommonplaces.com/), [Tega Brain](http://tegabrain.com/) and [Lauren Gardner](http://laurengardner.com/).

### Deadline to apply

The deadline for the Fall 2016 intensive session is August 1st and we will respond to all applications by mid-August. 

In the past, we’ve received 50+ strong applications, and this time will likely be competitive as well. We will select participants based on a work sample, application form and a short video introduction. We expect to notify the applicants by the end of March. Participants are expected to plan their travel and find accommodation.

### How much is tuition?

$5,500 USD for the 10 week program. You’ll also need to cover your own cost of living, including housing and meals (recent alumni report this to be in the range of $4,000 - $7,000). 

We are committed to being fully transparent about how we make and spend money. In the spirit of radical openness and generosity, on which the school was founded, we [open-source our finances on Github](http://github.com/sfpc/finance-and-administration). There, you can read financial reports and download raw statements.

### Do you offer scholarships?

We are completely self-funded, which dramatically limits our ability to offer scholarships. In Fall 2016, we are offering one work-study opportunity to a qualified applicant who would be expected to work 5 hrs/week in exchange for a 50% reduction of tuition.  We’re particularly looking out for women, people of color, people under-represented in the field of art + technology, and those with financial need. 

Please note that if you apply for work study, we will consider your application separately from the general admissions applications, since we have little flexibility regarding scholarships.This is for people who absolutely need assistance to participate in SFPC.

Occasionally, students have received support from cultural foundations or current employers and we are happy to provide materials as proof of acceptance.

### What is expected of me?

Acceptance into the session is an invitation to join the SFPC community. Full-time participation during the ten weeks is mandatory. This also means you come prepared to all of the classes, do the homework, and engage with the community. We expect our students to be in the school between 10am~5pm, Monday to Friday.

It’s also expected that you work openly – sharing what you learn along the way and collaborate with your peers. The success of the session for the group is dependent on engaged participation throughout the term. By participating you will be actively shaping an emerging culture of open source and transparent education. 

### Where is SFPC?
We are located in 155 Bank street, in the courtyard of the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village, New York City.
<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m26!1m12!1m3!1d3023.157285117621!2d-74.0114827845943!3d40.73656447932915!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m11!3e6!4m3!3m2!1d40.736779899999995!2d-74.00924049999999!4m5!1s0x89c259eb003122d1%3A0xede8af6a55291528!2s155+Bank+St%2C+New+York%2C+NY+10014!3m2!1d40.7365645!2d-74.00929409999999!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1466975848424" width="400" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Feel free to reach out to us if you have questions about the school: [info@sfpc.io](mailto:info@sfpc.io)

Commit message:

Big fixes
fix size of images for Participate pages.
Copy edit in few pages (FAQ, Participate)
Brought back to life: Summer 2015 page. (Page was still cached in
search engines, but offline)

fall2016.md, after:

---
title: Fall 2016
layout: participate
slides:

  - "/static/img/participate/door.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/bagels.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/D4N.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/poeticsciencefair.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/goldenhour.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/breadboard.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/circuits.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/workshop.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/notebook.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/softcircuits.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/havefun.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/totallyrad.jpg"

---

***

### Fall 2016 Immersive 
- Ten-Week Session: Oct. 10th - Dec. 16th, 2016
- @ SFPC, 155 Bank street, West Village, NYC

Join SFPC's main program for ten weeks in New York City. Daily classes that range from programming, electronics, and the history and theory of art and technology. There are student-led skill sharing sessions, lectures and workshops with visiting artists, visits to institutions, schools, art spaces and dinners with special guests.

We will select up to 12 participants for the session. Classes vary in length and are usually held Monday-Friday between 10am and 5pm. 

Students have full access to the space to work on projects between classes with teachers and mentors readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance. Peer to peer collaboration is highly encouraged among participants and at the end of the session we celebrate with a final student showcase where you get to share your projects with the larger SFPC community.

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">Apply to the Fall 2016 Session <a href="http://goo.gl/forms/oY2Loh3PCfEA754K2">here</a>.
</div>

### What classes will happen during the session?

We have not finalized the classes for the Fall session but they are typically structured around the following concepts:

- **Computation and artistic practice** — Algorithmic processes and concepts have been manifest in art and design throughout the twentieth century. How can we explore the influence of algorithms in practice and develop new approaches and techniques for utilizing them? What is the fundamental nature of computation and how can we work with it in a lyrical, expressive manner? How can code make things move in compelling and lifelike ways through animation and interaction?
- **Pedagogy, strategies for learning and teaching** — How do you learn new things? What sorts of environments and communities foster a nurturing space and an ongoing practice of learning? 
- **Language design as creative practice** — Every programming language has specific parameters and demands certain processes in its use, we consider the subtle differences and approaches that have shaped various languages throughout history. This area focuses also on ways to design programming languages from scratch and asks how can language design open up new ways of thinking, making and building software? How can we build better tools and with that, better possibilities for ourselves?
- **Electronics and physical computing** — What are the fundamental building blocks for electronic computer? How do transistors, resistors and capacitors work? How can we use binary logic gates to create adding and remembering machines? How does CPU work? How have micro-controllers made physical computing more accessible?
- **Theory and philosophy for technology** — With contemporary society and our collective future irrevocably changed by ubiquitous technology, what critical questions can we, the makers, artists and technologists pose to society? What can we learn from the history of technology and how can we draft the future we like to see?
- **Urban space and architecture** - We will explore playful intervention in the public space. What are interesting ways of connecting spaces? skateboarding?  
- **Building the commons** — The degree of access to artistic computational tools is largely a product of race, gender, sexuality, geography, and class. How can we use our skills and resources to bridge these divides? This area focuses on developing teaching tools, systems, and approaches to help bring poetic computation to diverse communities.
 
The idea behind these interconnected topics is to build on SFPC’s core curriculum by exploring common ground where we can take the ideas developed in our classroom into the streets and studio. We see them as platforms to help promote fearless prototyping, asking difficult questions, and creating projects that embody issues that are not yet commonly addressed in the art / tech world.

### Who are the teachers?

Specific teachers and visiting artists will be announced soon but here are a few folks who work with us: [Zachary Lieberman](http://thesystemis.com/), [Taeyoon Choi](http://taeyoonchoi.com/), [Allison Parrish](http://www.decontextualize.com/), [Nick Montfort](http://nickm.com), [Caitlin Morris](http://www.caitlinmorris.net/) and [Ramsey Nasser](http://nas.sr/), [Sam Lavigne](http://lav.io), [Ingrid Burrington](http://lifewinning.com/), [Todd Anderson](http://hotwriting.net/) and others.

Fall 2016 will be organized by SFPC Team: [Lauren Gardner](http://laurengardner.com/), Taeyoon Choi and Zachary Lieberman. Additional support will be provided by the SFPC Steering Committee: [Ida Benedetto](http://uncommonplaces.com/), [Tega Brain](http://tegabrain.com/) and [Amit Pitaru](http://pitaru.com/). 

### Deadline to apply

The deadline for the Fall 2016 intensive session is August 1st and we will respond to all applications by mid-August. 

In the past, we’ve received 50+ strong applications, and this time will likely be competitive as well. We will select participants based on a work sample, application form and a short video introduction. We expect to notify the applicants by the end of March. Participants are expected to plan their travel and find accommodation.

### How much is tuition?

$5,500 USD for the 10 week program. You’ll also need to cover your own cost of living, including housing and meals (recent alumni report this to be in the range of $4,000 - $7,000). 

We are committed to being fully transparent about how we make and spend money. In the spirit of radical openness and generosity, on which the school was founded, we [open-source our finances on Github](http://github.com/sfpc/finance-and-administration). There, you can read financial reports and download raw statements.

### Do you offer scholarships?

We are completely self-funded, which dramatically limits our ability to offer scholarships. In Fall 2016, we are offering one work-study opportunity to a qualified applicant who would be expected to work 5 hrs/week in exchange for a 50% reduction of tuition.  We’re particularly looking out for women, people of color, people under-represented in the field of art + technology, and those with financial need. 

Please note that if you apply for work study, we will consider your application separately from the general admissions applications, since we have little flexibility regarding scholarships.This is for people who absolutely need assistance to participate in SFPC.

Occasionally, students have received support from cultural foundations or current employers and we are happy to provide materials as proof of acceptance.

### What is expected of me?

Acceptance into the session is an invitation to join the SFPC community. Full-time participation during the ten weeks is mandatory. This also means you come prepared to all of the classes, do the homework, and engage with the community. We expect our students to be in the school between 10am~5pm, Monday to Friday. Read our <a href="/participate/"> Participate </a> page for more information.

It’s also expected that you work openly – sharing what you learn along the way and collaborate with your peers. The success of the session for the group is dependent on engaged participation throughout the term. By participating you will be actively shaping an emerging culture of open source and transparent education. 

### Where is SFPC?
We are located in 155 Bank street, in the courtyard of the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village, New York City.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m26!1m12!1m3!1d3023.157285117621!2d-74.0114827845943!3d40.73656447932915!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m11!3e6!4m3!3m2!1d40.736779899999995!2d-74.00924049999999!4m5!1s0x89c259eb003122d1%3A0xede8af6a55291528!2s155+Bank+St%2C+New+York%2C+NY+10014!3m2!1d40.7365645!2d-74.00929409999999!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1466975848424" width="400" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Feel free to reach out to us if you have questions about the school: [info@sfpc.io](mailto:info@sfpc.io)
