participate.md, before:

---
title: Participate
layout: participate
slides:

  - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_lunch.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/flower.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_group.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/havefun.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_notes.jpg"
---

## Current Open Calls

### Code Subversions ~ Evenings-Only Workshop ~ Aug. 15th - Aug. 27th
Instead of coding from scratch, we will be remixing, modding and collaging existing technologies to critically explore them. We'll learn about the physical infrastructure of the internet, the underlying logic of programming languages and the code behind popular corporate web platforms. We will then use this knowledge to create playful projects that subvert these computational systems we use every day.

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">Learn more about, and apply to Code Subversions <a href="/summer16short/">here</a>.
</div>

### Fall 2016 Immersive ~ Ten-Week Session ~ Oct. 10th - Dec. 16th
Daily classes that range from programming, electronics, and the history and theory of art and technology. There are student-led skill sharing sessions, lectures and workshops with visiting artists, visits to institutions, schools, art spaces and dinners with special guests.

We will select up to 12 participants for the session which will be held Oct. 10th - Dec. 16th. Classes vary in length and are usually held Monday-Friday between 10am and 5pm. 

Students have full access to the space to work on projects between classes with teachers and mentors readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance. Peer to peer collaboration is highly encouraged among participants and at the end of the session we celebrate with a final student showcase where you get to share your projects with the larger SFPC community.

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">Learn more about, and apply to the Fall 2016 Session <a href="/fall2016/">here</a>.
</div>

### What is the School for Poetic Computation?  

School for Poetic Computation (SFPC) is a hybrid of school, artist residency and research group where students develop a deep curiosity of what it means to work poetically in computational media. SFPC [began]((http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/08/12/code-to-joy-the-school-for-poetic-computation-opens/?_r=0)) as a school run by artists for artists. In the past we have held a combinations of two-week and ten-week intensive sessions.

SFPC is not a technical bootcamp, it is an opportunity to work with a group of faculty, visiting artists, and peers to focus on exploring artistic practice through computation. Computation is poetic when technology is used for critical thinking and aesthetic inquiry – a space where logic meets electricity (hardware), math meets language (software) and analytical thinking meets creative experimentation (theory). 

[This article](http://www.creativeapplications.net/education/teaching-and-learning-at-sfpc-conversation-with-allison-parrish-and-surya-mattu/) featuring two teachers provides more insight on what teaching and learning feels like at SFPC or you can check out some of the student's blogs from previous sessions: [Yeseul](http://ysfpc.tumblr.com), [Chris](http://sfpchris.tumblr.com/), [Toru](http://sfpctoruurakawa.tumblr.com/), [Andy](http://sfpc-amd.tumblr.com/), [Sarah](http://sarahgp.com/writings/sfpc/other-two-questions.html) and [Robby](http://robbykraft.com/sfpc/).  Finally, our [FAQ](http://sfpc.io/faq/).
  
### Who are we looking for?

We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open. Anyone with a passion to explore poetic computation is invited and celebrate diversity in all forms. We expect that you are eager to experiment, learn from failure and come fully dedicated to this ten week experience meaning you will commit to engage with SFPC full-time. 

In the past, we have had students with a broad array of technical experiences and we were delighted, though unsurprised, that everyone had something to learn from each other. A group of faculty leads a selection process that is based on applicant’s answers to an application form, work samples, and short interviews. Upon acceptance, a selection of reading and prep work will be assigned to you to complete prior to attending SFPC.

### What is expected of me?

Acceptance into the session is an invitation to join the SFPC community. Full-time participation during the ten weeks is mandatory. This also means you come prepared to all of the classes, do the homework, and engage with the community. We expect our students to be in the school between 10am~5pm, Monday to Friday.

It’s also expected that you work openly – sharing what you learn along the way and collaborate with your peers. The success of the session for the group is dependent on engaged participation throughout the term. By participating you will be actively shaping an emerging culture of open source and transparent education. 

### How can I help SFPC?

We are actively seeking private, corporate and institutional support to open our door to more diverse students. If you are interested in sponsoring a student, email <info@sfpc.io>. We are able to receive tax-deductible donations through our fiscal sponsor. 

### Where is SFPC?
We are located in 155 Bank street, in the courtyard of the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village, New York City.
<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m26!1m12!1m3!1d3023.157285117621!2d-74.0114827845943!3d40.73656447932915!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m11!3e6!4m3!3m2!1d40.736779899999995!2d-74.00924049999999!4m5!1s0x89c259eb003122d1%3A0xede8af6a55291528!2s155+Bank+St%2C+New+York%2C+NY+10014!3m2!1d40.7365645!2d-74.00929409999999!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1466975848424" width="400" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


Feel free to reach out to us if you have questions about the school: [info@sfpc.io](mailto:info@sfpc.io)

Commit message:

Big fixes
fix size of images for Participate pages.
Copy edit in few pages (FAQ, Participate)
Brought back to life: Summer 2015 page. (Page was still cached in
search engines, but offline)

participate.md, after:

---
title: Participate
layout: participate
slides:

  - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_lunch.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_group.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/flower.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/sum2016_notes.jpg"
---

## Current Open Calls

### Summer 2015 Intensive: Aug. 15th - Aug. 27th
Code Subversion is a Two-Weeks Evening-Only session. Instead of coding from scratch, we will be remixing, modding and collaging existing technologies to critically explore them. We'll learn about the physical infrastructure of the internet, the underlying logic of programming languages and the code behind popular corporate web platforms. We will then use this knowledge to create playful projects that subvert these computational systems we use every day.

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">Learn more about, and apply to <a href="/summer16short/"> Summer 2016 Code Subversions here</a>.
</div>

### Fall 2016 Immersive: Oct. 10th - Dec. 16th
Daily classes that range from programming, electronics, and the history and theory of art and technology. There are student-led skill sharing sessions, lectures and workshops with visiting artists, visits to institutions, schools, art spaces and dinners with special guests.

We will select up to 12 participants for the session which will be held Oct. 10th - Dec. 16th. Classes vary in length and are usually held Monday-Friday between 10am and 5pm. 

Students have full access to the space to work on projects between classes with teachers and mentors readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance. Peer to peer collaboration is highly encouraged among participants and at the end of the session we celebrate with a final student showcase where you get to share your projects with the larger SFPC community.

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">Learn more about, and apply to the <a href="/fall2016/">Fall 2016 Session here</a>.
</div>

### What is the School for Poetic Computation?  

School for Poetic Computation (SFPC) is a hybrid of school, artist residency and research group where students develop a deep curiosity of what it means to work poetically in computational media. SFPC [began]((http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/08/12/code-to-joy-the-school-for-poetic-computation-opens/?_r=0)) as a school run by artists for artists. In the past we have held a combinations of two-week and ten-week intensive sessions.

SFPC is not a technical bootcamp, it is an opportunity to work with a group of faculty, visiting artists, and peers to focus on exploring artistic practice through computation. Computation is poetic when technology is used for critical thinking and aesthetic inquiry – a space where logic meets electricity (hardware), math meets language (software) and analytical thinking meets creative experimentation (theory). 

[This article](http://www.creativeapplications.net/education/teaching-and-learning-at-sfpc-conversation-with-allison-parrish-and-surya-mattu/) featuring two teachers provides more insight on what teaching and learning feels like at SFPC or you can check out some of the student's blogs from previous sessions: [Yeseul](http://ysfpc.tumblr.com), [Chris](http://sfpchris.tumblr.com/), [Toru](http://sfpctoruurakawa.tumblr.com/), [Andy](http://sfpc-amd.tumblr.com/), [Sarah](http://sarahgp.com/writings/sfpc/other-two-questions.html) and [Robby](http://robbykraft.com/sfpc/).  Finally, our [FAQ](http://sfpc.io/faq/).
  
### Who are we looking for?

We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open. Anyone with a passion to explore poetic computation is invited and celebrate diversity in all forms. We expect that you are eager to experiment, learn from failure and come fully dedicated to this ten week experience meaning you will commit to engage with SFPC full-time. 

In the past, we have had students with a broad array of technical experiences and we were delighted, though unsurprised, that everyone had something to learn from each other. A group of faculty leads a selection process that is based on applicant’s answers to an application form, work samples, and short interviews. Upon acceptance, a selection of reading and prep work will be assigned to you to complete prior to attending SFPC.

### What is expected of me?

Acceptance into the session is an invitation to join the SFPC community. Full-time participation during the ten weeks is mandatory. This also means you come prepared to all of the classes, do the homework, and engage with the community. We expect our students to be in the school between 10am~5pm, Monday to Friday.

It’s also expected that you work openly – sharing what you learn along the way and collaborate with your peers. The success of the session for the group is dependent on engaged participation throughout the term. By participating you will be actively shaping an emerging culture of open source and transparent education. 

### How can I help SFPC?

We are actively seeking private, corporate and institutional support to open our door to more diverse students. If you are interested in sponsoring a student, email <info@sfpc.io>. We are able to receive tax-deductible donations through our fiscal sponsor. 

### Where is SFPC?
We are located in 155 Bank street, in the courtyard of the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village, New York City.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m26!1m12!1m3!1d3023.157285117621!2d-74.0114827845943!3d40.73656447932915!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m11!3e6!4m3!3m2!1d40.736779899999995!2d-74.00924049999999!4m5!1s0x89c259eb003122d1%3A0xede8af6a55291528!2s155+Bank+St%2C+New+York%2C+NY+10014!3m2!1d40.7365645!2d-74.00929409999999!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1466975848424" width="400" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>


Feel free to reach out to us if you have questions about the school: [info@sfpc.io](mailto:info@sfpc.io)
