summer16short.md, before:

---
title: Code Subversions - Summer '16' 
layout: participate
slides:

  - "/static/img/participate/SFPC2-weekSummer.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/flower.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/door.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/havefun.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/poeticsciencefair.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/notebook.jpg"  
---

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">
We are accepting Applications through <b>Aug 15th, 2016</b> on a rolling basis. <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1LnqBYC6LRODpFmBDm1dsVKHMFMZe11sH1eFiO_dj0y4/viewform"><b>Apply here</b></a>.
</div>

***

## Call for Students: Code Subversions
- 2-week Session, Monday Aug. 15th - Saturday Aug. 27th 
- @ SFPC in the West Village, NYC
- 7pm - 9pm, Evening Classes!

Instead of coding from scratch, we will be remixing, modding and collaging existing technologies to critically explore them. We'll learn about the physical infrastructure of the internet, underlying logic of programming languages and the code behind popular corporate web platforms. We will then use this knowledge to create playful projects that subvert the computational systems we use every day.

### Who are the teachers?
- [Ramsey Nasser](http://nas.sr/) - radical computer scientist, game-designer and educator
- [Tega Brain](http://tegabrain.com/) - artist, environmental engineer, Processing Foundation fellow
- [Sam Lavigne](http://lav.io) - data collagist, ITP fellow, [Stupid Hackathon](http://www.stupidhackathon.com/) founder
- [Ida C. Benedetto](http://uncommonplaces.com/) - transgressive place maker, experience designer, game maker
- [Ingrid Burrington](http://lifewinning.com/) - writer, map maker, infrastructure demystifier
- [Todd Anderson](http://hotwriting.net/) and [Lauren Gardner](http://laurengardner.com) are organizing the session. 

Additional support will be provided by the SFPC Steering Committee: [Zachary Lieberman](http://thesystemis.com/), [Taeyoon Choi](http://taeyoonchoi.com/), [Amit Pitaru](http://pitaru.com/), [Allison Burtch](http://www.allisonburtch.net/), [Ida Benedetto](http://uncommonplaces.com/) and [Tega Brain]().

### Classes

#### Speculative Bureaucracy // Tega Brain
In this class we will develop online interventions to rethink institutional agendas and critique mainstream tech culture. What are the dominant narratives used by institutions and industry to describe their goals, activities and politics? And what if you could rescript them? 

We will look at the history of culture jamming and apply speculative design strategies, using the contemporary web as medium. Taking delight in the banal, we will experiment with basic web scraping, text manipulation and browser add-ons to provide a glimpse of the world we'd like to see.

#### Radical Computer Science Minus Computers // Ramsey Nasser
> "I don't need to waste my time with a computer just because I am a computer scientist” — Edsger Dijkstra

The foundational ideas behind computer science have little to do with actual physical computers or textual code. Together we will explore viscerally the evaluation of code, the manipulation of data, the ambiguity of our minds, and even start to think about what new programming languages could look like, all without staring at a glowing screen. The light we’ll cast on these core ideas will make any code you write or language you design in the future that much more powerful.

#### Experiencing Transgression // Ida Benedetto
How can the feeling of infiltration, be it through bodily trespassing, mediated projection, or retrieval of taboo knowledge, create radical possibilities? Ida will draw on her history of creating experiences in place you aren't supposed to be to ground your code poetry experiments in the affective and interpersonal.

#### Automating Video // Sam Lavigne
In this workshop we'll use Python and basic command line tools to explore the possibilities of manipulating video with code. We'll treat video as a textual as well as visual medium, and focus on repurposing found footage to generate new compositions and narratives.

#### Architectural History of Computation // Ingrid Burrington
How do the physical conditions of the network influence our ideas about its history and politics? During this workshop, we'll explore different sites in Manhattan relevant to internet infrastructure and history while developing methods for commemorating and critiquing that history with site-specific interventions.

### What will happen in these two weeks?
Classes are held in the evenings Monday-Friday from 7-10pm. There will be a workshop during the first week on Saturday and the session will culminate in a party where students can invite their friends and share what they made and learned.

Students will have full access to the space for the two weeks of the session to work on projects between classes and mentors wil be readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance. 

### How much is tuition?
$1,500 USD for the 2-week program. You’ll also need to cover your own cost of living, including housing and meals (recent alumni report this to be in the range of $800 - $1400). 

We are committed to being fully transparent about how we make and spend money. In the spirit of radical openness and generosity, on which the school was founded, [we open-source our finances on Github](https://github.com/sfpc/finance-and-administration). There, you can read financial reports and download raw statements.

### What is expected of me?
- Come to all classes and thoughtfully engage with your classmates and teachers.
- We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open. 
- We welcome students with a broad array of technical experiences--no coding experience is required, but a basic comfort level with technology is preferred. 
- B.Y.O.Laptop (Mac / PC / Linux)

### How do I apply?
**[Please fill out this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1LnqBYC6LRODpFmBDm1dsVKHMFMZe11sH1eFiO_dj0y4/viewform)**

We will be accepting up to 15 students on a rolling basis. We will give you a response to your application within ~1 week of submission. Rolling admissions means there are fewer and fewer slots the longer you wait, so if you’re interested in the program get your application in early!
  
Feel free to reach out to us if you have questions about the school: [info@sfpc.io](mailto:info@sfpc.io)

Commit message:

Big fixes
fix size of images for Participate pages.
Copy edit in few pages (FAQ, Participate)
Brought back to life: Summer 2015 page. (Page was still cached in
search engines, but offline)

summer16short.md, after:

---
title: Code Subversions - Summer '16' 
layout: participate
slides:

  - "/static/img/participate/SFPC2-weekSummer.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/wallbw.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/flower.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/door.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/havefun.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/poeticsciencefair.jpg"
  - "/static/img/participate/notebook.jpg"  
---

<div class="alert alert-success" role="alert">
We are accepting Applications through <b>Aug 15th, 2016</b> on a rolling basis. <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1LnqBYC6LRODpFmBDm1dsVKHMFMZe11sH1eFiO_dj0y4/viewform"><b>Apply here</b></a>.
</div>

***

## Call for Students: Code Subversions
- 2-week Session, Monday Aug. 15th - Saturday Aug. 27th 
- @ SFPC, 155 Bank street, West Village, NYC
- 7pm - 9pm, Evening Classes 

Instead of coding from scratch, we will be remixing, modding and collaging existing technologies to critically explore them. We'll learn about the physical infrastructure of the internet, underlying logic of programming languages and the code behind popular corporate web platforms. We will then use this knowledge to create playful projects that subvert the computational systems we use every day.

### Who are the teachers?
- [Ramsey Nasser](http://nas.sr/) - radical computer scientist, game-designer and educator
- [Tega Brain](http://tegabrain.com/) - artist, environmental engineer, Processing Foundation fellow
- [Sam Lavigne](http://lav.io) - data collagist, ITP fellow, Stupid Hackathon founder
- [Ida C. Benedetto](http://uncommonplaces.com/) - transgressive place maker, experience designer, game maker
- [Ingrid Burrington](http://lifewinning.com/) - writer, map maker, infrastructure demystifier
- [Todd Anderson](http://hotwriting.net/) and [Lauren Gardner](http://laurengardner.com) are organizing the session. SFPC Team including [Zachary Lieberman](http://thesystemis.com/) and  [Taeyoon Choi](http://taeyoonchoi.com/) will provide additional support.  

### Classes

#### Speculative Bureaucracy // Tega Brain
In this class we will develop online interventions to rethink institutional agendas and critique mainstream tech culture. What are the dominant narratives used by institutions and industry to describe their goals, activities and politics? And what if you could rescript them? 

We will look at the history of culture jamming and apply speculative design strategies, using the contemporary web as medium. Taking delight in the banal, we will experiment with basic web scraping, text manipulation and browser add-ons to provide a glimpse of the world we'd like to see.

#### Radical Computer Science Minus Computers // Ramsey Nasser
> "I don't need to waste my time with a computer just because I am a computer scientist” — Edsger Dijkstra

The foundational ideas behind computer science have little to do with actual physical computers or textual code. Together we will explore viscerally the evaluation of code, the manipulation of data, the ambiguity of our minds, and even start to think about what new programming languages could look like, all without staring at a glowing screen. The light we’ll cast on these core ideas will make any code you write or language you design in the future that much more powerful.

#### Experiencing Transgression // Ida Benedetto
How can the feeling of infiltration, be it through bodily trespassing, mediated projection, or retrieval of taboo knowledge, create radical possibilities? Ida will draw on her history of creating experiences in place you aren't supposed to be to ground your code poetry experiments in the affective and interpersonal.

#### Automating Video // Sam Lavigne
In this workshop we'll use Python and basic command line tools to explore the possibilities of manipulating video with code. We'll treat video as a textual as well as visual medium, and focus on repurposing found footage to generate new compositions and narratives.

#### Architectural History of Computation // Ingrid Burrington
How do the physical conditions of the network influence our ideas about its history and politics? During this workshop, we'll explore different sites in Manhattan relevant to internet infrastructure and history while developing methods for commemorating and critiquing that history with site-specific interventions.

### What will happen in these two weeks?
Classes are held in the evenings Monday-Friday from 7-10pm. There will be a workshop during the first week on Saturday and the session will culminate in a party where students can invite their friends and share what they made and learned.

Students will have full access to the space for the two weeks of the session to work on projects between classes and mentors wil be readily available for technical, conceptual, and artistic guidance. Read our <a href="/participate/"> Participate </a> page for more information.

### How much is tuition?
$1,500 USD for the 2-week program. You’ll also need to cover your own cost of living, including housing and meals (recent alumni report this to be in the range of $800 - $1400). 

We are committed to being fully transparent about how we make and spend money. In the spirit of radical openness and generosity, on which the school was founded, [we open-source our finances on Github](https://github.com/sfpc/finance-and-administration). There, you can read financial reports and download raw statements.

### What is expected of me?
- Come to all classes and thoughtfully engage with your classmates and teachers.
- We are looking for autodidacts from all backgrounds who are curious, generous and open. 
- We welcome students with a broad array of technical experiences--no coding experience is required, but a basic comfort level with technology is preferred. 
- B.Y.O.Laptop (Mac / PC / Linux)


### Where is SFPC?
We are located in 155 Bank street, in the courtyard of the Westbeth Artists Community in the West Village, New York City.

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m26!1m12!1m3!1d3023.157285117621!2d-74.0114827845943!3d40.73656447932915!2m3!1f0!2f0!3f0!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m11!3e6!4m3!3m2!1d40.736779899999995!2d-74.00924049999999!4m5!1s0x89c259eb003122d1%3A0xede8af6a55291528!2s155+Bank+St%2C+New+York%2C+NY+10014!3m2!1d40.7365645!2d-74.00929409999999!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sus!4v1466975848424" width="400" height="300" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>



### How do I apply?
**[Please fill out this form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1LnqBYC6LRODpFmBDm1dsVKHMFMZe11sH1eFiO_dj0y4/viewform)**

We will be accepting up to 15 students on a rolling basis. We will give you a response to your application within ~1 week of submission. Rolling admissions means there are fewer and fewer slots the longer you wait, so if you’re interested in the program get your application in early!
  
Feel free to reach out to us if you have questions about the school: [info@sfpc.io](mailto:info@sfpc.io)
