content/students.md, before:

---
title: "students"
Pubdate: "2013-07-09"
markup: md
Aliases:
    - /doc/redirects/
    - /doc/alias/    
type: students

---

![simona picture](../static/media/fall13/simona.png)

#### Simona De Rosa 
 
[Simona](http://simonaderosa.tumblr.com/) is a designer, observer, researcher and strategist born in south of Italy, now living and working in Berlin at Nokia (HERE Maps). She studied at Polytechnic of Milan, at Design Faculty (2007), during 2009 deeply curious and attracted by the "Next Billion People" she moved to China to pursue a double master degree in Design & Innovation at Tongji University, Shanghai.  Last May, she took part to [The Art of Data-based Visual Narratives](http://gestaltenspace.tumblr.com/post/51724176169/gestalten-workshop-with-nicolas-felton-thank) by Nicholas Felto, where she had a revealing glimpse on the importance of code: it allows to deal with (big)data sets that go beyond what we can see with normal eyes.

Realizing that coding is not only about data representation, but actually coding is everywhere: from ordering food, to using an ATM, recording memories, talking to family and friends, Simona believes it's not too late to learn how to program, because it teaches you how to think!

---------------------------------------

![le wei picture](../static/media/fall13/le.png)

#### Le Wei

Le studied computer science and human-computer interaction at Carnegie Mellon, and is currently working on web frontend for Google+. She spent most of her life in the baby-small state of Delaware but has also lived in Chicago, Pittsburgh, London, and now San Francisco. She enjoys learning how to make things, both physical and digital. [Here](http://www.buttgenerator.com/) is the silliest project she's worked on this year.

---------------------------------------

![jonathan picture](../static/media/fall13/jonathanD.png)

#### Jonathan Dahan 

[Jonathan Dahan](http://jedahan.com/) is a hacker of computation machinations, interactive experiences, and electroacoustics. He likes exploring the boundaries of private and public space, and generally causing (mostly harmless) c̉̊haos in an attempt to cause a fracture in people's otherwise regular days.

Currently working in the Media Lab at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, he helps to empower modern artists to work on their craft, and explore cultural heritage.

---------------------------------------

![claire lin picture](../static/media/fall13/claire.png)

#### Claire Lin

[Claire Lin](http://portfolio.claireraelin.com/) is a New York-based designer working in interactive media. She is interested in creating experiences and interactions that live at the cross-section of digital media and physical space. Most recently, she comes from Studio Rodrigo where she designed web and mobile products for clients like Bedrocket, MTV and This American Life. Previously, she has worked with the LAB at Rockwell Group, Project Projects, as well as Local Projects, where she helped design and create interactive environments for museums and public spaces. She holds a B.F.A. in Graphic Design from School of Visual Arts.

---------------------------------------

![moises picture](../static/media/fall13/moises.png)

#### Moises Sanabria

Born in Caracas, Venezuela, [Moises Sanabria](http://www.art404.com/) is an artist interested in technology, internet culture and contemporary branding. He is one of the co-founders of the new media collective [Art404](http://www.art404.com/) (Art Not Found), whose works often deal with legitimacy, value, and perception. Art404 often uses the online world as a medium for creating works, including projects involving Photoshop, the hacker group Anonymous, and the Sims.
 
Art404 has shown at Transmediale 2k+12 in Berlin, Gucci Vuitton in Miami, Ars Electronica Festival in Austria & Conflux Festival in NYC. Moises is currently attending the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, where he is focusing on Interactive 3D graphics and physical computing. He lives and works in New York City.
 
 ---------------------------------------

![ischac picture](../static/media/fall13/ishac.png)

#### Ishac Bertran

[Ishac Bertran](http://www.ishback.com/) is an engineer and designer from Barcelona. He is interested in technology, design and art, and how those disciplines feed our culture.
 
Ishac holds an MA in Mechanical Engineering, and graduated from Copenhagen Institute of Interaction Design, where he was also involved as faculty and thesis advisor. He first worked as an R&D engineer in Hewlett-Packard, and later in innovation consultancies for clients such as Toyota or Nestlé. Last year he moved to NYC, where he has done design work for Google, fifty-three and B-Reel. In parallel, Ishac works on self driven projects, exploring technologies, processes, materials and combinations of them. He has recently done experiments in computer-generated photography, fictional forms of interaction and self-published a poetry book written in code. His work has received international recognition (IxDA, Core77 awards) and has been featured in numerous exhibitions and publications (Lift, Salone Internazionale del Mobile, Wired, Fast Company, Make).
 
Ishac is always curious about new forms of creative expression and new methods for education - these are just a few reasons why he joined SFPC.

---------------------------------------

![mini picture](../static/media/fall13/mini.png)

#### Mini Kim

While exploring diverse career paths, [Mini Kim](http://www.minsunmini.com/) fell in love with data visualization. During her free time she would spend hours making sense of the data being created around her. She hopes that her interest in data can ultimately result in impactful work. 

Mini has just finished a year of the Interaction Design MFA program at the School of Visual Arts. She is taking a year off from the program to work at the UNICEF Innovation Unit and to explore her personal interest in art and coding. At UNICEF, Mini works on data visualization and system projects and got to travel to Senegal and Lebanon this summer. 

Now at the School for Poetic Computation, she is looking forward to exploring new ways to express herself through data visualization and become a part of an artistic community. She is ready to learn from others, expand her thoughts and share her knowledge.

---------------------------------------

![andy picture](../static/media/fall13/andy.png)

#### Andy Clymer

Originally from Southern California, [Andy Clymer](http://www.andyclymer.com/) has been living and working in New York City as a Senior Type Designer and Developer at the Hoefler & Frere-Jones type foundry for the last eight years. While studying in the Type & Media postgraduate course at the Koninklijke Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Royal Academy of Art) in The Hague, The Netherlands, Andy became increasingly drawn to the notion that type designers have had for centuries of building one's own tools for the job — mechanical bits and pieces, historically, and now bits and pieces of software. 

Most recently, Andy has been teaching this approach to design in the Type@Cooper postgraduate program at the Cooper Union in New York City and to undergraduate type design students at the University of Arts in Philadelphia.

---------------------------------------

![jonathan picture](../static/media/fall13/jonathanW.png)

#### Jonathan Wohl

[Jonathan Wohl](http://jonwohl.com/) is a multidisciplinary artist based in Queens, NY.  With an eclectic background in woodworking, video and sound design, the natural sciences, and software development, his work falls at the intersection between art, technology, and social commentary.  He has built musical instruments and sonic sculptures, collaborated with dancers and filmmakers, and created politically-themed video games.  A recent fascination has been the performative nature of corporate culture.

Jonathan studied the ephemeral arts and physics at the University of Wisconsin, and is a founding member of [The Notion Collective](http://notioncollective.com/), a group of four collaborating artists currently working in New York City.  He has been involved in Farmwork, an art/life practice focused on living holistically and creatively, and is a semi-regular attendee of the yearly Summerwork workshop/retreat.

---------------------------------------

![rachel picture](../static/media/fall13/rachel.png)

#### Rachel Uwa 

Rachel is an artist and organiser working with diverse tech communities in Europe to create educational opportunities for those interested in learning to make and to code.

Her background is in audio engineering and visual effects and for her the logical next step is moving into programming apps and interactive installation work to make visual effects happen "in the real world".  

Having previously worked with social justice groups, she feels compelled to help make the tech world less daunting and more diverse and inclusive. Among other projects, she is currently working closely with groups such as [OpenTechSchool](http://www.opentechschool.org/berlin/) in Berlin, Germany, where she resides, to realise their next dream: creating a hacker school! Stay tuned.

---------------------------------------

![paul picture](../static/media/fall13/peng.png)

#### Paul Cheng 

[Peng Cheng](http://www.ooxxv5.com) is a Chinese artist who works with a variety of media, including game, toy, electronics, digital media, and installation. Paul received his bachelor’s degree from Raffles Design Institute in Shanghai. 

In 2007, Paul joined what was then a start-up company Tudou, designing ads and website contents. In 2007 he was awarded “Best Employee at Tudou.”

To pursue his interest in the interdisciplinary art and cross-cultural experience, Peng is currently completing his Graduate Degree in the Design and Technology Department at Parsons School for Design. He is focusing on the use of new computer technology to explore comparative cultural study through visual media.  

---------------------------------------

![jason](../static/media/fall13/jason.png)

#### Jason Levine

[Jason Levine](http://jasonlevine.ca) is a musician, performer, and creative coder. On a mission to bridge different artistic disciplines, he sees computation as a universal language for translating and communicating between different mediums. Inspired by improvisation, Jason focuses on the interactive and generative qualities of coding to create real-time software systems for live performance. He is currently on an experimental binge creating music with genetic algorithms, rearranging the pixels of famous images, putting dancers into generative worlds, and creating a body-controlled interactive music creation system.
 
Jason has worked extensively as a beatboxer/vocalist accompanying circus shows, street theatre, and contemporary dance. Most recently, Jason has worked as a freelance creative coder, designing interactive visuals for Eryc Taylor Dance, generative art apps for Fragile Tension LLC, and prototyping Kinect interactions for Harmonix’s new game [Fantasia:Music Evolved. ](http://www.gamespot.com/fantasia-music-evolved/videos/fantasia-music-evolved-directing-the-music-demo-e3-2013-6410179/) 

---------------------------------------

![motoi picture](../static/media/fall13/motoi.png)

#### Motoi Shimizu 

[Motoi Shimizu](http://nuafk.jp/) is a Tokyo-based developer who work with code: openFrameworks / web-based interactivity. After several years of career as a web front-end engineer, he graduated from Dynamic Sensory Programming course at International Academy of Media Arts and Science. Stayed at Interface Culture in Kunstuniversität Linz (Austria) in 2010 winter semester. He started writing codes since 2010 with keywords: playful interactivity, real world oriented networking.

---------------------------------------

![jessica picture](../static/media/fall13/jessica.png)

#### Jessica Wolpert 

[Jessica Wolpert](http://www.jessewolpert.com) makes things; she is interested in smudging the boundaries between traditional craft and the binary arts. She has worked as a translator, jeweller, plumber, teacher and spent 6 long years in a merchant bank. 

Jesse is currently working on a series of video interactions playing with the concept of privacy and secret worlds; modern day peep shows whose characters observe you right back

She is the founder of No Voyeurs Events that require active participation and will not allow you to just sit back and watch: house galleries, film festivals, performance art and walks galvanising local engagement and collaboration.

If Jesse could eat one last meal on earth, it would be toast. 

---------------------------------------

![evan picture](../static/media/fall13/evan.png)

#### Evan Misshula


Evan is a social justice advocate, researcher and FREE software evangalist. He is a PhD student at the CUNY Graduate Center. He is deeply commited to using both computation and art to advance the causes of justice and compassion.

This summer he was a fellow at the [Data Science for Social Good](http://dssg.io/) program at the University of Chicago. He hopes to use this time to build software that encourages people to collaborate and visualize solutions to problems of inequity. education and escape poverty. He has taught statistics, remedial math and computer security.

Commit message:

site updates
- improved readme
- added @caseyg to /about
- fixed typos (thx David Prager Branner) and markdown rendering on /faq
- fixed typo on /students page (thx @andreaskoller), removed Evan
Misshula for this semster, and added Tega Brain

content/students.md, after:

---
title: "students"
Pubdate: "2013-07-09"
markup: md
Aliases:
    - /doc/redirects/
    - /doc/alias/    
type: students

---

![simona picture](../static/media/fall13/simona.png)

#### Simona De Rosa 
 
[Simona](http://simonaderosa.tumblr.com/) is a designer, observer, researcher and strategist born in south of Italy, now living and working in Berlin at Nokia (HERE Maps). She studied at Polytechnic of Milan, at Design Faculty (2007), during 2009 deeply curious and attracted by the "Next Billion People" she moved to China to pursue a double master degree in Design & Innovation at Tongji University, Shanghai.  Last May, she took part to [The Art of Data-based Visual Narratives](http://gestaltenspace.tumblr.com/post/51724176169/gestalten-workshop-with-nicolas-felton-thank) by Nicholas Felton, where she had a revealing glimpse on the importance of code: it allows to deal with (big)data sets that go beyond what we can see with normal eyes.

Realizing that coding is not only about data representation, but actually coding is everywhere: from ordering food, to using an ATM, recording memories, talking to family and friends, Simona believes it's not too late to learn how to program, because it teaches you how to think!

---------------------------------------

![le wei picture](../static/media/fall13/le.png)

#### Le Wei

Le studied computer science and human-computer interaction at Carnegie Mellon, and is currently working on web frontend for Google+. She spent most of her life in the baby-small state of Delaware but has also lived in Chicago, Pittsburgh, London, and now San Francisco. She enjoys learning how to make things, both physical and digital. [Here](http://www.buttgenerator.com/) is the silliest project she's worked on this year.

---------------------------------------

![jonathan picture](../static/media/fall13/jonathanD.png)

#### Jonathan Dahan 

[Jonathan Dahan](http://jedahan.com/) is a hacker of computation machinations, interactive experiences, and electroacoustics. He likes exploring the boundaries of private and public space, and generally causing (mostly harmless) c̉̊haos in an attempt to cause a fracture in people's otherwise regular days.

Currently working in the Media Lab at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, he helps to empower modern artists to work on their craft, and explore cultural heritage.

---------------------------------------

![claire lin picture](../static/media/fall13/claire.png)

#### Claire Lin

[Claire Lin](http://portfolio.claireraelin.com/) is a New York-based designer working in interactive media. She is interested in creating experiences and interactions that live at the cross-section of digital media and physical space. Most recently, she comes from Studio Rodrigo where she designed web and mobile products for clients like Bedrocket, MTV and This American Life. Previously, she has worked with the LAB at Rockwell Group, Project Projects, as well as Local Projects, where she helped design and create interactive environments for museums and public spaces. She holds a B.F.A. in Graphic Design from School of Visual Arts.

---------------------------------------

![moises picture](../static/media/fall13/moises.png)

#### Moises Sanabria

Born in Caracas, Venezuela, [Moises Sanabria](http://www.art404.com/) is an artist interested in technology, internet culture and contemporary branding. He is one of the co-founders of the new media collective [Art404](http://www.art404.com/) (Art Not Found), whose works often deal with legitimacy, value, and perception. Art404 often uses the online world as a medium for creating works, including projects involving Photoshop, the hacker group Anonymous, and the Sims.
 
Art404 has shown at Transmediale 2k+12 in Berlin, Gucci Vuitton in Miami, Ars Electronica Festival in Austria & Conflux Festival in NYC. Moises is currently attending the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, where he is focusing on Interactive 3D graphics and physical computing. He lives and works in New York City.
 
 ---------------------------------------

![ischac picture](../static/media/fall13/ishac.png)

#### Ishac Bertran

[Ishac Bertran](http://www.ishback.com/) is an engineer and designer from Barcelona. He is interested in technology, design and art, and how those disciplines feed our culture.
 
Ishac holds an MA in Mechanical Engineering, and graduated from Copenhagen Institute of Interaction Design, where he was also involved as faculty and thesis advisor. He first worked as an R&D engineer in Hewlett-Packard, and later in innovation consultancies for clients such as Toyota or Nestlé. Last year he moved to NYC, where he has done design work for Google, fifty-three and B-Reel. In parallel, Ishac works on self driven projects, exploring technologies, processes, materials and combinations of them. He has recently done experiments in computer-generated photography, fictional forms of interaction and self-published a poetry book written in code. His work has received international recognition (IxDA, Core77 awards) and has been featured in numerous exhibitions and publications (Lift, Salone Internazionale del Mobile, Wired, Fast Company, Make).
 
Ishac is always curious about new forms of creative expression and new methods for education - these are just a few reasons why he joined SFPC.

---------------------------------------

![mini picture](../static/media/fall13/mini.png)

#### Mini Kim

While exploring diverse career paths, [Mini Kim](http://www.minsunmini.com/) fell in love with data visualization. During her free time she would spend hours making sense of the data being created around her. She hopes that her interest in data can ultimately result in impactful work. 

Mini has just finished a year of the Interaction Design MFA program at the School of Visual Arts. She is taking a year off from the program to work at the UNICEF Innovation Unit and to explore her personal interest in art and coding. At UNICEF, Mini works on data visualization and system projects and got to travel to Senegal and Lebanon this summer. 

Now at the School for Poetic Computation, she is looking forward to exploring new ways to express herself through data visualization and become a part of an artistic community. She is ready to learn from others, expand her thoughts and share her knowledge.

---------------------------------------

![andy picture](../static/media/fall13/andy.png)

#### Andy Clymer

Originally from Southern California, [Andy Clymer](http://www.andyclymer.com/) has been living and working in New York City as a Senior Type Designer and Developer at the Hoefler & Frere-Jones type foundry for the last eight years. While studying in the Type & Media postgraduate course at the Koninklijke Academie van Beeldende Kunsten (Royal Academy of Art) in The Hague, The Netherlands, Andy became increasingly drawn to the notion that type designers have had for centuries of building one's own tools for the job — mechanical bits and pieces, historically, and now bits and pieces of software. 

Most recently, Andy has been teaching this approach to design in the Type@Cooper postgraduate program at the Cooper Union in New York City and to undergraduate type design students at the University of Arts in Philadelphia.

---------------------------------------

![jonathan picture](../static/media/fall13/jonathanW.png)

#### Jonathan Wohl

[Jonathan Wohl](http://jonwohl.com/) is a multidisciplinary artist based in Queens, NY.  With an eclectic background in woodworking, video and sound design, the natural sciences, and software development, his work falls at the intersection between art, technology, and social commentary.  He has built musical instruments and sonic sculptures, collaborated with dancers and filmmakers, and created politically-themed video games.  A recent fascination has been the performative nature of corporate culture.

Jonathan studied the ephemeral arts and physics at the University of Wisconsin, and is a founding member of [The Notion Collective](http://notioncollective.com/), a group of four collaborating artists currently working in New York City.  He has been involved in Farmwork, an art/life practice focused on living holistically and creatively, and is a semi-regular attendee of the yearly Summerwork workshop/retreat.

---------------------------------------

![rachel picture](../static/media/fall13/rachel.png)

#### Rachel Uwa 

Rachel is an artist and organiser working with diverse tech communities in Europe to create educational opportunities for those interested in learning to make and to code.

Her background is in audio engineering and visual effects and for her the logical next step is moving into programming apps and interactive installation work to make visual effects happen "in the real world".  

Having previously worked with social justice groups, she feels compelled to help make the tech world less daunting and more diverse and inclusive. Among other projects, she is currently working closely with groups such as [OpenTechSchool](http://www.opentechschool.org/berlin/) in Berlin, Germany, where she resides, to realise their next dream: creating a hacker school! Stay tuned.

---------------------------------------

![paul picture](../static/media/fall13/peng.png)

#### Paul Cheng 

[Peng Cheng](http://www.ooxxv5.com) is a Chinese artist who works with a variety of media, including game, toy, electronics, digital media, and installation. Paul received his bachelor’s degree from Raffles Design Institute in Shanghai. 

In 2007, Paul joined what was then a start-up company Tudou, designing ads and website contents. In 2007 he was awarded “Best Employee at Tudou.”

To pursue his interest in the interdisciplinary art and cross-cultural experience, Peng is currently completing his Graduate Degree in the Design and Technology Department at Parsons School for Design. He is focusing on the use of new computer technology to explore comparative cultural study through visual media.  

---------------------------------------

![jason](../static/media/fall13/jason.png)

#### Jason Levine

[Jason Levine](http://jasonlevine.ca) is a musician, performer, and creative coder. On a mission to bridge different artistic disciplines, he sees computation as a universal language for translating and communicating between different mediums. Inspired by improvisation, Jason focuses on the interactive and generative qualities of coding to create real-time software systems for live performance. He is currently on an experimental binge creating music with genetic algorithms, rearranging the pixels of famous images, putting dancers into generative worlds, and creating a body-controlled interactive music creation system.
 
Jason has worked extensively as a beatboxer/vocalist accompanying circus shows, street theatre, and contemporary dance. Most recently, Jason has worked as a freelance creative coder, designing interactive visuals for Eryc Taylor Dance, generative art apps for Fragile Tension LLC, and prototyping Kinect interactions for Harmonix’s new game [Fantasia:Music Evolved. ](http://www.gamespot.com/fantasia-music-evolved/videos/fantasia-music-evolved-directing-the-music-demo-e3-2013-6410179/) 

---------------------------------------

![motoi picture](../static/media/fall13/motoi.png)

#### Motoi Shimizu 

[Motoi Shimizu](http://nuafk.jp/) is a Tokyo-based developer who work with code: openFrameworks / web-based interactivity. After several years of career as a web front-end engineer, he graduated from Dynamic Sensory Programming course at International Academy of Media Arts and Science. Stayed at Interface Culture in Kunstuniversität Linz (Austria) in 2010 winter semester. He started writing codes since 2010 with keywords: playful interactivity, real world oriented networking.

---------------------------------------

![jessica picture](../static/media/fall13/jessica.png)

#### Jessica Wolpert 

[Jessica Wolpert](http://www.jessewolpert.com) makes things; she is interested in smudging the boundaries between traditional craft and the binary arts. She has worked as a translator, jeweller, plumber, teacher and spent 6 long years in a merchant bank. 

Jesse is currently working on a series of video interactions playing with the concept of privacy and secret worlds; modern day peep shows whose characters observe you right back

She is the founder of No Voyeurs Events that require active participation and will not allow you to just sit back and watch: house galleries, film festivals, performance art and walks galvanising local engagement and collaboration.

If Jesse could eat one last meal on earth, it would be toast. 

---------------------------------------

![tega picture](../static/media/fall13/tega.png)

#### Tega Brain

[Tega Brain](http://tegabrain.com) is an artist, environmental engineer and educator from Sydney Australia. With qualifications in both art and environmental engineering, her practice explores science, ecology and engineering in the Anthoposcene. She creates site specific installations, disfunctional devices, experimental infrastructures, speculative services and information visualisations (sometimes using underpants). 

She teaches courses in art, design and engineering in universities in Sydney and is in the USA as a recipient of an Australia Council for the Arts early career artist fellowship.
