_faqs/philosophy-and-pedagogy.md, before:

---
title: Philosophy and Pedagogy
order: 3
---

### What is the School for Poetic Computation?

SFPC is an alternative school for art and technology. We are striving to create a model of education based on collaboration between faculty and students. By participating you will be actively shaping an emerging culture of open source and transparent education. 
 
You can read some articles about the kind of work that’s developed at SFPC: [New York Times](https://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/08/12/code-to-joy-the-school-for-poetic-computation-opens/), video sketch of the final day at [Seen in NY](https://vialogues.com/vialogues/play/14021) and also students’ reports on their time at the school can be found here: [Ida](http://uncommonplaces.com/2014/06/school-poetic-computation/) and showcase projects on the [Creative Applications](https://www.creativeapplications.net/tag/sfpc/). You can check out videos on our [Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/sfpc).

### Where did the idea come from?

We have been teaching and organizing workshops at schools and festivals around the world. We want to create a safe haven for others to develop ideas into reality. We want to bring all of our experience and knowledge to make a sustainable system for learning and teaching code, experimenting with pedagogy, electronics, installation, performance, user experience, data visualization and etc.

### What kind of students are you looking for?

We are looking for people from all backgrounds, who are curious, generous and open. Anyone with a passion to explore poetic computation is invited, and we are looking for diversity in all its forms. Our only expectation is that you are eager to experiment, can learn from failure, and come fully dedicated to this 10 week experience. In the past, we have had students with a broad array of technical experiences and we were delighted, though unsurprised, that everyone had something to learn from each other. A group of faculty leads a selection process that is based on applicant’s answers to an application form, work samples, and short interviews. 

### Do I need programming skills to be accepted?

We encourage students to have some familiarity with programming and technology in general. If you are an absolute beginner, there will be assignments prior to the School that will get you familiar with the medium.

### What is the teaching philosophy?

We celebrate failure and collaboration. Our classes are going to be a mix of lecture, demo and lab hours. We respect our students and support them as artists and educators. We hope our students will have the experience to create projects on their own and teach after the program.

### What other schools like this exist?

Here’s a list of short, non-degree granting programs to learn coding: [The Recurse Center](https://www.recurse.com/), [ScriptEd](https://www.scripted.org/), [Women Who Code](https://www.womenwhocode.com). There’s also places like [The Brooklyn institute](http://thebrooklyninstitute.com/), [LA Game Space](http://lagamespace.org/), [Kitchen Table Coders](http://kitchentablecoders.com/). We are very happy that our alumni are starting their own schools such as [School of Ma in Berlin](http://schoolofma.org/), and [OF Course in Shanghai](http://www.ofcourse.io/). [Teachablefile](http://www.teachablefile.org/) is a huge list of artist-run schools. The book, [Art School: Propositions for the 21st Century](http://www.amazon.com/Art-School-Propositions-21st-Century/dp/0262134934), is a good intro to alternative art schools.

### Who started the school?

The school was co-founded in by Zach Lieberman, Taeyoon Choi, Amit Pitaru, and Jen Lowe in 2013, with Casey Gollan working on administration.

### Who runs the school?

The SFPC Team: Zachary Lieberman, Taeyoon Choi and Lauren Gardner organize the sessions. The SFPC Steering Committee: Ida Benedetto, Amit Pitaru, Tega Brain, Todd Anderson, Robby Kraft, Brian Solon provide additional support. We try to work with new teachers and visitors every session, often involving our alumni and community. 

### Why do you teach?

Teaching inspires learning. We love meeting new people and we often make our best work in collaboration with others.

Commit message:

teaching as art page, updating FAQ with covid-19 info, adding updated Press

_faqs/philosophy-and-pedagogy.md, after:

---
title: Philosophy and Pedagogy
order: 3
---

### What is the School for Poetic Computation?

SFPC is an alternative school for art and technology. We are striving to create a model of education based on collaboration between faculty and students. By participating you will be actively shaping an emerging culture of open source and transparent education. 
 
You can read some articles about the kind of work that’s developed at SFPC on our Press page. In the first year, [New York Times](https://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2013/08/12/code-to-joy-the-school-for-poetic-computation-opens/) covered our inaguration. You can check out a short video of the first classs at [Seen in NY](https://vialogues.com/vialogues/play/14021) and the latest student showcase projects on the [Creative Applications](https://www.creativeapplications.net/tag/sfpc/). You can also check out videos on our [Vimeo](https://vimeo.com/sfpc) for selected talks and class documentations.

### Where did the idea come from?

We have been teaching and organizing workshops at schools and festivals around the world. We want to create a safe haven for others to develop ideas into reality. We want to bring all of our experience and knowledge to make a sustainable system for learning and teaching code, experimenting with pedagogy, electronics, installation, performance, user experience, data visualization and etc.

### What kind of students are you looking for?

We are looking for people from all backgrounds, who are curious, generous and open. Anyone with a passion to explore poetic computation is invited, and we are looking for diversity in all its forms. Our only expectation is that you are eager to experiment, can learn from failure, and come fully dedicated to the learning experience. In the past, we have had students with a broad array of technical experiences and we were delighted, though unsurprised, that everyone had something to learn from each other. A group of faculty leads a selection process that is based on applicant’s answers to an application form, work samples, and short interviews. 

### What is the teaching philosophy?

We celebrate failure and collaboration. Our classes are going to be a mix of lecture, demo and lab hours. We respect our students and support them as artists and educators. We hope our students will have the experience to create projects on their own and teach after the program.

### What other schools like this exist?

Here’s a list of short, non-degree granting programs to learn coding: [The Recurse Center](https://www.recurse.com/), [Code Cooperative](https://www.google.com/search?q=code+cooperative&rlz=1C5CHFA_enUS788US788&oq=code+coope&aqs=chrome.0.0j69i57j0l6.2121j0j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8), [Women Who Code](https://www.womenwhocode.com). We are very happy that our alumni are starting their own schools such as [School of Ma in Berlin](http://schoolofma.org/) in Berlin, and [OF Course in Shanghai](http://www.ofcourse.io/) in Shanghai. [Teachablefile](http://www.teachablefile.org/) is a huge list of artist-run schools. The book, [Art School: Propositions for the 21st Century](https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/art-school), is a good intro to alternative art schools. We also love [Draw It with Your Eyes Closed: The Art of the Art Assignment](https://www.amazon.com/Draw-Your-Eyes-Closed-Assignment/dp/0979757541). 

### Who started the school?

The school was co-founded in by Zach Lieberman, Taeyoon Choi, Amit Pitaru, and Jen Lowe in 2013, with Casey Gollan working on administration.

### Who runs the school?

The SFPC Team: Zachary Lieberman, Taeyoon Choi and Lauren Gardner organize the sessions. The SFPC Steering Committee: Ida Benedetto, Amit Pitaru, Tega Brain, Todd Anderson, Robby Kraft, Brian Solon provide additional support. We try to work with new teachers and visitors every session, often involving our alumni and community.
